OPERATING GUIDE										
										
Contents	2									
										
24-month warranty	6									
										
Warranty	6									
										
Safety instructions	7									
										
The  Navigation device	9									
										
Operating manual contents	9									
										
Use of the product	9									
										
Navigation	9									
										
Images*	9									
										
Telephone (selected models)	10									
										
Unpacking the  Navigation device	10									
										
Checking the contents	10									
										
Overview of functions	11									
										
Scope of delivery	13									
										
Complaints	13									
										
Handling the packaging	13									
										
Description of the device	13									
										
The basic unit	14									
										
Cable for power supply from cigarette lighter	14									
										
Battery	14									
										
USB connection cable	14									
										
Unit bracket	14									
										
Accessories	14									
										
Mains power supply unit	14									
										
Cable for vehicle integration (for										
certain models only)	15									
										
Information about the										
documentation	15									
										
Quick Start Guide	15									
										
Operating instructions	15									
										
Registration	15									
										
Repairs	15									
										
Emissions and disposal	15									
										
Overview of the scope of Delivery	16									
										
Overview of the navigation device	17									
										
General operation	19									
										
Maintenance and care	19									
										
Battery quality declaration	20									
										
Display quality declaration	20									
										
Start-up	20									
										
Power supply	20									
										
Using the battery	21									
										
Connection for the cigarette lighter	21									
										
Connection to the mains outlet	22									
										
Connecting to power supply	22									
										
TMC antenna (depending on the										
model)	22									
										
GPS antenna	22									
										
Unit antenna	22									
										
Cable for vehicle integration										
(depending on model, optional)	23									
										
Cable for rear view camera										
(depending on the model, optional)	23									
										
Memory card	23									
										
Inserting the memory card	24									
										
Ejecting the memory card	24									
										
Unit bracket	24									
										
Fitting the unit bracket	24									
										
On the windscreen	25									
										
Adjusting the unit holder’s position	26									
										
Attaching the  Navigation device	26									
										
Removing the  Navigation device	26									
										
Devices with magnetic holders	26									
										
Switching the  Navigation device on/										
										
off (model dependent)	26									
										
Switching on	27									
										
Switching off (depending on model)	27									
										
Basic information about the touch screen	28									
										
Operation	28									
										
Calibration	28									
										
Basic information about the menus	29									
										
The main menu	29									
										
Entries made with the entry menu	30									
										
Entering characters	30									
										
Accepting proposals	30									
										
Scrolling through the lists	31									
										
Special characters and accent marks	31									
										
Other character sets	32									
										
Entering numbers	32									
										
Switching between upper and lower										
case:	32									
										
Deleting characters	33									
										
Inserting spaces	33									
										
The back button	33									
										
Content Manager	33									
										
Installing the Content Manager	34									
										
Starting the Content Manager	34									
										
Traffic announcements using TMC (depending on the model)	83									
										
Live Traffic - Traffic Announcements via Data										
Connection (model dependent)	84									
										
Displaying TMC messages on the map	84									
										
Using TMC	85									
										
Reading a message	86									
										
Taking announcements into										
consideration when calculating routes	86									
										
Automatic recalculation	86									
										
Manual recalculation	86									
										
The map display	87									
										
Calling up the map display	87									
										
Structure of the map display	87									
										
Map display without route guidance	87									
										
Map display with route guidance	88									
										
The Information box	88									
										
Split screen with route guidance	89									
										
Route guidance with arrow display	90									
										
Lane Assistant Pro 3D (model dependent)	90									
										
Map display with Junction view	91									
										
Tunnel view	91									
										
Using the map display	92									
										
Repeating the last announcement	92									
										
Changing the announcement volume	92									
										
Map zooming	93									
										
Moving the map	93									
										
Map orientation	93									
										
The Route overview	94									
										
SituationScan	95									
										
The detour assistant	95									
										
The Park Assistant	95									
										
The departure assistant	96									
										
Map display options	96									
										
Displaying the whole route	97									
										
Move route (model-dependent)	97									
										
Selecting alternative routes	99									
										
Change route options	99									
										
Canceling route guidance	99									
										
Entering/deleting a stopover	100									
										
Blocking route temporarily	100									
										
Setting day/night display	101									
										
Displaying current position										
(Where am I?)	101									
										
Entering the destination	103									
										
Skipping a destination	103									
										
Supplementary functions for trucks and mobile homes (selected models only)	104									
										
Feedback after route calculation	104									
										
Zooming in on the map	104									
										
Warnings with planned route	104									
										
Warnings without planned route	105									
										
Show route	105									
										
Other additional functions (only selected models)	106									
										
Display height profile	106									
										
Telephone mode	107									
										
Calling up the telephone mode (only selected models)	107									
										
Telephone menu (only selected										
models)	108									
										
Dialing a number	108									
										
Phonebook	109									
										
Call list	111									
										
Icons used	111									
										
Scrolling through the call list	111									
										
Dialing an available number	112									
										
Displaying or editing entries	112									
										
Lists loaded from cell phone	112									
										
Connecting Bluetooth® telephones	113									
										
Calling up a device list	113									
										
Automatic connection	114									
										
Searching for cell phones	114									
										
Connect new devices	115									
										
Connecting a mobile phone	115									
										
Disconnecting a connected telephone	115									
										
Telephone calls	116									
										
Establishing a call	116									
										
Accepting a call	116									
										
Ending a call	117									
										
During a call	117									
										
Telephone settings	118									
										
Bluetooth®	119									
										
Automatic connection	119									
										
Automatic call acceptance	119									
										
Telephone volume	119									
										
Updating the phonebook	120									
										
Bluetooth® name	120									
										
Tools	121									
										
Travel Guide (model dependent)	121									
										
Rear View camera	121									
										
Displaying Rear view camera										
(depending on the model)	121									
										
Image viewer*	121									
										
The image viewer menu	122									
										
Selecting an image	122									
										
Enlarging the image	123									
										
Rotating the picture	123									
										
Displaying image information	123									
										
Slide show	124									
										
Settings	124									
										
Where am I?	124									
										
Traffic forecast (depending on model)	124									
										
Country information	125									
										
Blocking a section of the road permanently	126									
										
Trip computer (depending on										
model)	127									
										
Settings	129									
										
Selecting system settings	129									
										
The system settings menu	129									
										
Operation	129									
										
Selection options	129									
										
Closing the settings menu	129									
										
The individual menu items	130									
										
Battery	130									
										
Automatic on/off	130									
										
Day/night display	131									
										
Brightness	131									
										
Design by day	132									
										
Design by night	132									
										
Setting the colour	133									
										
Language	133									
										
Keyboard layout	134									
										
Sounds	134									
										
Rear view camera (depending on the model)	134									
										
Screen animations	134									
										
Driver profiles (depending on model)	135									
										
Renaming driver profile	135									
										
Deleting driver profile	136									
										
Driver profile Pro (model										
dependent)	136									
										
Service information	137									
										
Factory settings	137									
										
Calibration (model dependent)	137									
										
WiFi settings (model dependent)	138									
										
Technical terminology	139									
										
index	141									
										
Model overview and technical										
specifications	144									
										
NOTICE	146									
										
EU Declaration of Conformity	146									
										
Disposal of the unit	147									
										
Disposal of the battery	148									
										
Duty to supply information according										
to battery legislation (BattV)	148									
										
Removing the battery	148									
										
The information and data contained in these documents are subject to change without prior notice.										
No part of these documents may be du- plicated or transmitted for any purpose whatsoever without express written per- mission of United Navigation GmbH. All technical information, drawings etc. are subject to copyright law.										
© Copyright 2014, United Navigation GmbH All rights reserved.										
The Bluetooth® word mark is a registered trademark owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of such marks by United Navigation GmbH is under license.										
										
24-month warranty										
The company United Navigation  GmbH, Marco-Polo-Str. 1, 73760 Ostfildern, Germany, provides a world-wide, 24-month warranty (battery: 6 months) for BECKER units, beginning on the day of delivery to the final customer (buyer). Within the framework of the warranty, functional defects will be eliminated free-of-charge, provided that these can be shown to be the result of material or manufacturing faults and this shall be ef- fected either by elimination of the fault or by provision of a new unit, at the discre- tion of the manufacturer. Warranty claims must be registered by the buyer immediately after defects are discovered and must be accompanied by the initial buyer’s purchase contract.										
										
The warranty expires after 24 months (battery: 6 months); neither warranty claims nor fulfilment shall effect an ex- tension of the warranty period.										
Faults resulting from improper handling, incorrect installation of the unit, improper noise suppression of the vehicle, static charge or mechanical damage are exclud- ed from the warranty.										
The warranty is invalidated in the case of repairs or tampering on the part of the buyer or unauthorised third parties.										
Repairs may only be performed by per- sons and service centres expressly au- thorised by the manufacturer or by the manufacturer himself.										
This warranty does not affect or restrict the legal warranty rights of the buyer.										
										
S										
										
¤  Safety instructions										
										
Use of the device is only permitted if the traffic conditions are suitable and you are absolutely sure that its use presents no risk, distraction or inconvenience to you, your passengers or other road users.										
Traffic  laws and regulations will apply in each and every case. Destinations may only be entered when the vehicle is stationary.										
										
The navigation system is merely an aid, data/information may in select cases be incorrect. The driver must decide in each situation by him- or herself if he or she will follow the directions. No liability will be assumed for incorrect directions provided by the navigation system. Imprecise or incorrect directions may be provided due to changing traffic patterns or deviations in data. Therefore, you must always observe the actual road signs and traffic regulations. In particular, the navigation system must not be used as an orientation aid at times of poor visibility.										
										
The device must only be used for its intended purpose. The volume of the navigation system should be adjusted so that noises external to the vehicle are still well audible.										
										
Turn the unit off immediately if a defect occurs (e.g. emission of smoke or odors).										
										
For reasons of safety and security, the device must only be opened by a professional. In case of needed repair please consult your dealer.										
										
Navigation devices from Becker could contain magnets. Do not bring them near magnetic data carriers (notebooks) or cards (EC cards, credit cards etc.). These could get damaged or be rendered unusable if brought into contact. Magnets can impair the function of cardiac pacemakers! Persons with cardiac pacemakers should not carry the device to close to their bodies.										
										
It is forbidden to exceed the supply voltages (Volts) specified for the mains adapter, the motor vehicle charging adapter and the product. In case of non-observance, the product or the charger may be damaged, or the battery may explode.										
										
Do not open the product or the battery under any circumstances. No modifications of the product are permitted, any such modification leads to the loss of the operating permission.										
										
Only use original BECKER accessories. This way it is ensured that all relevant provisions will be met and that health risks and damages to the product are avoided. Dispose of the used product or the battery according to the legal regulations in effect.										
										
Improper use excludes all warranties! The safety instructions are also valid for any original BECKER accessories.										
										
Allowed temperature range: -20 °C – 60 °C storage / 0 °C – 45 °C operation										
										
Operating manual contents										
This operating manual contains the description of your Becker navigation equipment.										
This manual contains descriptions for different model versions in a single document. Therefore, some of the functions described here might not be available for your equipment under certain circumstances.										
All pictures are similar.										
Use of the product										
This product is a high performance PND (Personal Navigation Device) for use in vehicles. Protect the product and the accessories from moisture and dirt.										
Navigation										
The use of the GPS = Global Positioning system eliminates the tedious process of looking in street maps.										
The receiver antenna integrated into the product allows constant access to the navigation services outside buildings. Within buildings, it is currently not possible to access any navigation functions. When using in vehicles, it might not possible to receive sufficent GPS data depending on the installation position of the Navigation device.										
										
Images*										
The Navigation device has a Picture Viewer with a lot of image display functions.										
										
Telephone (selected models)										
Your Navigation device is equipped with Bluetooth® wireless technology. Via Bluetooth®, you may connect to a cell phone equipped with Bluetooth® wireless technology.										
Your Navigation device can then be used as a very comfortable hands-free unit. You also have the option to read out the address book or phonebook of the cell phone and to read any received short messages.										
Unpacking the Navigation device										
Checking the contents										
Before you start using the Navigation device, the scope and condition of the contents must be thoroughly checked  (see also page 16).										
										
Unpack the contents carefully and check them thoroughly.										
										
Overview of functions										
										
": standard
- : not available
: optional"	Navigation system									
	"active.5 CE LMU
BE B00"	"active.5 LMU
BE B00"	"transit.5 LMU
BE B02"	"active.5 LMU plus
BE B10"	"active.6 CE LMU
BE B30"	"active.6 LMU plus
BE B40"	"professional.5 LMU
BE B20"	"professional.6 LMU
BE B50"	"transit.6 LMU
BE B50"	"ready.5
BE B60"
TMC										
Becker Speech Dialogue System	-	-	-	-	-	-				
Becker OneShot speech control	-	-	-	-	-	-				-
Speed camera warning	​	​	​	​	​	​	​	​	​	-
Driver warnings	-	-		-	-	-	-	-		​
Telephone	-	-	-		-					-
Trip computer	-	-	-		-					-
Environmental zones										-
Truck & Camper Navigation Pro	-	-		-	-	-	-	-		
Display height profile	-	-		-	-	-				-
Move route	-	-	-	-	-	-				-
ADAC Camping Guide	​	​	​	​	​	​	​	​		-
Traffic forecast	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Driver profiles	-	-	-	-	-	-	-			-
Driver profile Pro	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Lane assistant Pro 3D										-
Reversing camera	-	-	-	-	-	-	-			-
Connection for vehicle integration	-	-	-	-	-	-	-			-
WiFi	-	-	-	-	-	-				-
Becker Link2Live	-	-	-	-	-	-				-
Live Traffic	-	-	-	-	-	-				-
Live POI Search	-	-	-	-	-	-				-
										
										
": standard
- : not available
: optional"	Navigation system									
	"Ready 70 LMU
BJE00"	"Transit 70 LMU
BJE10"	"Transit 70 LMU Pro
BJE11"	"Professional 70 LMU
BJE12"						
TMC										
Becker Speech Dialogue System	-	-	-	-						
Becker OneShot speech control	-	-								
Speed camera warning	-	-								
Driver warnings	​	​	​	​						
Telephone	-									
Trip computer	-	-	-	-						
Environmental zones	-									
Truck & Camper Navigation Pro										
Display height profile	-			-						
Move route	-	-								
ADAC Camping Guide	-	-								
Traffic forecast	-	-		​						
Driver profiles	-	-	-	-						
Driver profile Pro	-									
Lane assistant Pro 3D	-	-	-	-						
Reversing camera										
Connection for vehicle integration										
WiFi	-									
Becker Link2Live	-									
Live Traffic	-									
Live POI Search	-	​								
										
Scope of delivery										
Navigation device										
Device console with carrier plate (depending on model)										
USB cable										
Motor vehicle adapter power supply 12/24 V for cigarette lighters with built-in TMC antenna (depending on model)										
In the case of devices with magnetic holders, the carrier plate and car adapter cable  form one unit.										
Complaints										
In case of complaints, please consult your dealer. The equipment may be sent directly to United Navigation in its original packaging.										
										
Handling the packaging										
Keep the original packaging in a dry place, at least for the warranty period.										
Description of the device										
The navigation device consists of the basic unit and the accessories included in the scope of delivery.										
For descriptions of the individual parts, see:										
"""Overview of the scope of Delivery"" on   page 16"										
										
The basic unit										
The basic unit consists of the complete electronic unit:										
Integrated antenna										
a TMC receiver for receiving traffic messages (depending on the model),										
Touchscreen										
an integrated loudspeaker										
a microphone (dependingon the model).										
On the side of the unit, there are also various connections and ports.										
You will find more details of the unit under:										
"""Model overview and technical   specifications"" on page 144"										
										
Cable for power supply from cigarette lighter										
This cable allows the unit to be connect- ed up to the car's cigarette lighter.										
The power supply must satisfy the following requirements:										
DC current 12/24 volts 1 amps										
										
Battery										
When depleted, the integrated rechargeable battery can be recharged by connecting the Navigation device to the power supply.										
For this purpose, connect the unit via a car power adapter to a 12/24 V socket in a vehicle or via the optional mains power supply unit to the 230 V mains.										
USB connection cable										
With the USB connection cable provided, it is possible to connect the Navigation device to a standard PC with a USB interface. The integrated flash memory of the navigation device and a micro SD card that may eventually be inserted can then be addressed by the PC like a removable storage device.										
Unit bracket										
The Navigation device can be mounted in the vehicle using the unit bracket.										
										
Accessories										
Mains power supply unit										
This power supply allows connection of the Navigation device to a mains outlet.										
										
The power supply must satisfy the following requirements:										
Alternating current 100-240 volts 50-60 Hertz										
										
Cable for vehicle integration (for certain models only)										
"With a 4-pin 3.5mm jack cable you can integrate your Navigation device seamlessly into your vehicle. Details of the connection can be found under  ""Cable for vehicle integration (depending"										
"  on model, optional)"" on page 23."										
										
Information about the documentation										
Quick Start Guide										
The Quick Start Guide is designed to provide a brief introduction to operating your Navigation device. The most important basic functions of the Navigation device are explained in the Quick Start Guide.										
										
Operating instructions										
A comprehensive explanation of the Navigation device functionalities is contained in these operating instructions.										
Registration										
You can register your product using our software service. We will then inform you of any new updates and other news.										
										
"Registration is performed in the  ""Content   Manager""  - see  page 33."										
										
Repairs										
The unit must not be opened if damaged. Please contact your dealer.										
Emissions and disposal										
"You will find details on emissions and electromagnetic compatibility and disposal in  ""NOTICE"" on page 146."										
										
Scope  of delivery										
										
Basic device – PND (Personal Navigation Device)										
USB connection cable										
Unit holder with carrier plate (the design depending on the model)										
Cable for power supply via the vehicle cigarette lighter (12/24 Volt) with integrated TMC-antenna (depending on the model)										
In the case of devices with magnetic holders, the carrier plate and car adapter cable	form one unit.									
										
Front of unit with controls and displays										
Back button 										
										
Model dependent: either on the left bottom side of the screen or in the left top corner of the housing.										
Press = Back function in most applications Press and hold = Open the main menu										
Touch screen showing the main menu selected										
Touch screen key										
Press = activates the corresponding key command										
Microphone (depending on the model, sometimes in the right top corner, too))										
										
Model dependent, the arrangement of the connections can differ on the bottom side of the device.										
										
1										
										
Top of the unit										
ON/OFF switch										
										
Underside of the unit										
Slot for Micro SD card										
Mini USB connection / connection for power supply										
Connection for reversing camera										
Connection for vehicle integration										
										
1										
										
Top of the unit										
Standby switch (sleep mode)										
Underside of the unit										
Slot for Micro SD card										
Mini USB connection / connection for power supply										
On/Off switch (I/O)										
										
Maintenance and care										
The unit is maintenance-free.										
For proper care, a commercially available cleansing fluid for electrical devices may be applied using a soft damp cloth.										
										
Your mobile navigation system was designed and manufactured with great care and should be treated with equal care. You will enjoy your mobile naviga- tion system for a long time to come if you observe the recommendations listed in the following:										
Protect your mobile navigation unit and the accessories from water and moisture. If your unit has been exposed to moisture, switch it off immediately and disconnect the power supply. Allow to dry at room temperature.										
Do not operate your mobile navigation system in a dusty or dirty environment and do not store it in such an environment.										
Do not store your mobile navigation system in hot environments. High temperatures can shorten the service life of electronic components in your unit, damage the rechargeable batteries and cause certain plastics to warp or melt.										
Do not store your mobile navigation system in cold environments. During operation, when the unit warms up to operating temperature, moisture may form internally, causing damage to electronic components.										
Do not drop your mobile navigation system unit, protect it from shocks and do not shake it. Improper handling can damage components within the unit.										
Never use corrosive or aggressive chemicals, cleaning solutions or aggressive detergents for cleaning.										
All the above information applies equally to the mobile navigation system, the rechargeable battery, the mains charg- ing and car power adapters as well as all accessories. Should one of these parts not work properly, please contact your authorised dealer.										
										
Battery quality declaration										
The capacity of the rechargeable battery in your mobile navigation system decreases with every charging/ discharging cycle. Improper storage at excessively high or low temperatures may also cause a gradual deterioration of capacity. Consequently, the operating time may be substantially reduced even in the case of a fully charged battery.										
Display quality declaration										
In some cases, for technical reasons, a few discoloured dots (pixels) may be visible on the display. Some pixels may also appear brighter or darker. However, such instances do not represent a product flaw.										
Start-up										
Once the Navigation device has been unpacked and checked for damage, the unit can be started up. The individual start-up steps are:										
connect to power supply.										
switching on the unit.										
ensuring antenna reception (if navigation is desired)										
Power supply										
										
Using the battery										
The internal power supply is via the integrated rechargeable battery. The rechargeable battery is maintenance- free and does not require any particular care.										
You are alerted by a warning message when the battery should be recharged. After the alert, the device can still be used for approximately 10 minutes before switching off automatically.										
Connection for the cigarette lighter										
Connect the power supply via the vehicle battery and the cable provided for the cigarette lighter as follows:										
Grasp the connector of the connection cable and insert it gently without force into the connector socket of the navigation device up to the stop, or in the case of a device with an active cradle, on the underside of the supporting plate. (Model dependent, this step is not required on navigation devices with magnetic holders)										
Insert the adapter into the cigarette lighter.										
										
Connection to the mains outlet										
										
Connecting to power supply										
Connection to the public mains grid is achieved using the optionally available mains power supply unit. Please proceed as follows to connect to the mains:										
Hold the connector and push it all the way into the connecting socket in the Navigation device without using excessive force.										
Insert the plug of the power supply unit into the socket.										
TMC antenna (depending on the model)										
The supplied TMC antenna is i ntegrated into the cable for power supply.										
										
The TMC antenna runs in parallel with the the cigarette lighter cable in the delivered condition.										
If the TMC reception is poor, you must remove the cable of the TMC antenna from the cable for the cigarette lighter. (Model dependent, the cable cannot be disconnected on navigation devices with magnetic holders)										
										
GPS antenna										
Unit antenna										
The GPS antenna is integrated into the housing.										
										
Cable for vehicle integration (depending on model, optional)										
With a 4-pin 3.5mm jack cable you can integrate your Navigation device seamlessly into your vehicle.										
connect your Navigation device to the phone mute function of your audio system. If the cable is connected correctly, your audio system will mute the car radio during navigation announcements.										
connect your Navigation device to your audio system for output of the audio signal.										
										
Plug the cable into the designated 3.5 socket on the underside of the device.										
										
Cable for rear view camera (depending on the model, optional)										
You can connect your rear view camera to your navigation device using a 4-pin										
2.5mm AV cable. Insert the cable into the socket provided on the back of the basic unit, also see  page 18.										
										
You can make the necessary settings in the chapter  “Rear View camera” on   page 12 1.										
										
Memory  card										
										
Your Navigation device has a slot for a micro SD memory card.										
As the map data is stored in an internal memory on the Navigation device, the slot for a micro SD memory card is used for updates and for viewing images.										
The memory card can also be used for supplementing the map data.										
										
The card slot is located on the bottom side of the device. The card slot is equipped with a spring-actuated locking and ejector mechanism.										
										
Inserting the memory card										
Remove the memory card from its packaging without touching or soiling the contact bar.										
Hold the memory card so that the contact strip is facing towards the rear of the unit.										
Guide the memory card into the card slot.										
Exert a little pressure and slide the memory card into the card slot until it snaps in.										
										
Ejecting the memory card										
The card slot ejects the card so that you can pull it out with two fingers.										
Use your finger to gently press the memory card against the spring force into the card slot and then release it.										
The card is ejected.										
Remove the memory card and place it in the packaging while ensuring not to touch contact bar.										
Unit bracket										
The Navigation device can be attached directly to the windscreen with the unit holder.										
Fitting the unit bracket										
										
Similar to figure, on devices with magnetic holders no unlocking button is present  .										
On the windscreen										
The unit holder can be attached directly to the windscreen using the suction mechanism.										
Press the carrier plate onto the four retaining lugs of the unit holder.										
Select a suitable spot to attach.										
Loosen the fastening screw	slightly.									
										
Press the base with its suction surface against the windscreen. Turn the unit holder such that the carrier plate is positioned roughly in the desired viewing direction.										
Press the lever  down.										
The holder has attached itself firmly to the windscreen. It can now be adjusted with precision. In order to remove it, operate the  lever again.										
										
Adjusting the unit holder’s position										
Loosen the fastening screws  4  and until the carrier plate  6  can be moved without using excessive force.										
										
Move the carrier plate to the required position and hold it in this position.										
Tighten the fastening screws	and sufficiently so that the Navigation device is held securely in place when									
										
the vehicle is in motion.										
										
Attaching the Navigation device										
Position the Navigation device with the attachment point on the bottom of the housing, onto the carrier plate  .										
Without using excessive force, press										
Devices with magnetic holders										
The unlocking button is not present. First place the navigation device with the upper mounting point onto the carrier plate and fold down the navigation device. The magnet holds the navigation device securely on the carrier plate. To remove the navigation device, first take it off from the carrier plate at the bottom.										
										
Switching the Navigation device on/off (model dependent)										
With the ON/OFF switch (I/O) you can switch the Navigation device on or off completely.										
With the button on the upper side of the Navigation device you can switch the device to sleep mode or switch it from sleep mode again.										
										
2										
										
the Navigation device onto the carrier										
For devices without the  1										
										
button on the										
										
plate	. The Navigation device locks into place.									
										
Removing the Navigation device										
underside (model dependent): With the button you can switch the device off,										
on or to the sleep mode.										
										
Press the button  7  on the top of the										
										
carrier plate	6  . This unlocks the									
										
Navigation device which can be removed from the carrier plate.										
										
Switching  on										
										
Press the button on the top of the Navigation device.										
The unit is switched on. The manufacturer's logo appears on the touchscreen.										
										
When the Navigation device is started for the first time, the language selection is displayed automatically.										
										
Using the 										
 buttons or the scroll wheel, it is possible to scroll through the list in the direction of the relevant arrow.										
										
Press the button for the required language.										
The selection is confirmed by pressing										
OK .										
										
Then select the desired voice.										
A short example announcement is given.										
Confirm your selection by pressing the										
OK  button.										
										
The following prompt appears shortly afterwards:										
										
If you agree to the request contained in this prompt, press the  OK  button.										
										
Switching off (depending on model)										
You can switch the unit off at any time.										
Press the button on the top of the Navigation device.										
The Navigation device switches to sleep mode.										
Before finally switching off the naviga- tion device, press the I/O switch on the underside of the device to 0.										
										
For devices without the I/O switch on the underside:										
Press the switch on the top of the navigation device for longer than 3 seconds to finally switch it off.										
Basic information about the touch screen										
The Navigation device is fitted with a touch screen.										
Operation										
When you touch a button on the touch screen, the button in question is briefly shown outlined in red to confirm the selection.										
If you touch a button that is not active at the moment, a short signal tone sounds.										
										
Calibration										
If the touch screen starts responding imprecisely, calibration should be undertaken.										
The calibration function is started from the  menu  (see also page 137).										
										
Basic information about the menus										
During operations, you are assisted by various menus and entry windows.										
										
The main  menu										
										
The top menu level is the main menu. The individual applications are started from the main menu.										
										
You will find information about the indi- vidual applications in the corresponding main chapters.										
In addition to the individual applications, the main menu also contains further information and operating options.										
You can tell whether a telephone is already connected by the symbol on the  Phone  button.										
										
Telephone connected Telephone not connected										
										
A satellite symbol at the right of the status line shows you whether there is currently GPS reception or not.										
										
GPS reception No GPS reception										
If route guidance is already active, the current destination address and a button for cancelling route guidance will be displayed between the two rows of buttons.										
Press the button to cancel route guidance to the di splayed destination directly in the main menu.										
										
Entries made with the entry menu  Some applications require entries to be made via the entry menu. The entry menu is operated in a similar way to a keypad.										
										
The keyboard layout can be switched between ABC and QWERTZ, see page  “Keyboard layout” on page 134										
										
The character entered on the keypad is displayed in the top line of the entry menu. The central area is used to enter characters. Help functions are provided in the right line. Descriptions of how to operate the menu are provided below.										
Entering characters										
Characters are entered by pressing the keys in the central area.										
Once the entry is complete, the process is concluded by pressing the 										
 key and the entry passed on to the Navigation device for processing.										
										
When a navigation destination is entered, the Navigation device compares the data with the stored data.										
Only those letters that are still possible area vailable for selection.										
Characters that cannot be selected are displayed greyed out.										
Accepting proposals										
"During entry, the Navigation device makes proposals in the uppermost line. The proposals take into account your usage habits. For example, if you enter the city of Hamburg often, then after you enter the letter ""H"" the proposal ""Hamburg"" is automatically displayed."										
If no preferences are known for the letter entered, then cities/locations suitable for the entry are displayed as proposals.										
To accept the proposal, you may press either the input field or the 										
 button.										
										
Scrolling through the lists										
If you have already entered some of the letters of the selection you want, you can use the selection list to display all the destinations containing the combination of letters in question.										
										
To call up the selection list, press the	key.									
										
The selection list appears.										
										
Press the 										
 arrow keys on the right hand side of the screen to scroll through the list.										
										
Press the destination you want.										
The destination is adopted and the selection list is closed.										
										
Special characters and accent marks										
Special characters and accent marks do not have to be used when entering the names of towns and streets. The Navigation device will change entries from AE, OE and UE if necessary.										
"If, for example, you are looking for the location ""Würzburg"", then simply press ""WUERZBURG"" or ""WURZBURG""."										
Special characters can be useful when naming destinations and routes.										
In order to switch to the special characters keyboard, press the button marked with an arrow.										
The special characters keyboard is displayed.										
Enter the desired special character. After you enter a character, the Naviga- tion device automatically switches to the normal input menu.										
To exit the special character keypad without an entry, press the button marked with the arrow.										
										
Other character sets										
Different character sets can be selected for the keyboard of the Navigation device.										
Press the button marked with an arrow repeatedly until the desired character set is selected.										
Entering numbers										
Switch to the numbers keyboard in order to enter figures.										
Press the 										
 button.										
										
The numbers keyboard is displayed.										
In order to return again to the keyboard for entering letters, press the button marked with an arrow.										
Switching between upper and lower case:  During free text entry, it is possible to switch between upper/lower case and the automatic function.										
										
Press repeatedly on the button in the top right-hand corner of the display until the desired method of entry is activated.										
The inscription on the button symbolises the method of entry.										
The	button represents automatic mode. This means that, on entry, the first letter is automatically in upper case and subsequently changes automatically to lower case.									
										
The 										
 button represents the entry of upper case letters.										
										
The 										
 button represents the entry of lower case letters.										
										
Deleting characters										
To delete the last character, use the back key.										
To delete the character to the left of the cursor, press the 										
 key.										
										
Inserting spaces										
If you have an entry with two words, e.g. for names of towns, the words should be separated by a space.										
To enter a space, press the 										
 key.										
										
The back button										
The 										
 button is located on the bottom left of the device.										
										
It has various functions:										
Depending on the menu context, if pressed briefly, you will be returned to the previous entry level.										
The main menu is displayed by pressing and holding the button.										
Content Manager										
The Content Manager is a PC-based application containing a number of important functions to help you manage the content on your Navigation de vice. With the Content Manager you can:										
										
back up the content saved on the Navigation device to your PC and restore it later to your Navigation device,										
download current content from the Internet and install it on the Navigation device. To use the Content Manager, you will need the USB cable provided as well as a computer that meets the following minimum requirements:										
										
Installing the Content Manager										
You can install the Content Manager  on your computer with the following steps:										
										
Switch the navigation device comple- tely off, see  “Devices with magnetic   holders” on page 26 .										
										
Connect the USB interface of the de- vice directly to a USB port of the com- puter using the USB cable supplied.										
Switch on the navigation device.										
"If the application does not start automati- cally, please start the file ""CONTENT- MANAGER"" manually in the folder ""Becker_Content_Manager_Setup""."										
Select a language from the list and then click on  OK .										
										
Read the welcome page and click on										
Next  to continue.										
										
Select the installation folder. A default installation folder is already specified. To select another folder, either type in the path name or click on  Browse  and define another folder.										
										
Click on  Install  to start the copying procedure. Click on  Details  to see the details during copying.										
										
The Content Manager is automatically started immediately after installation. Remove the check mark from the box if you do not want this.										
This completes the installation proce- dure.										
Click on  Finish  to exit the installation program.										
										
Starting the Content Manager										
Execute the following actions to start the Content Manager:										
Switch the navigation device comple- tely off, see  “Devices with magnetic   holders” on page 26 .										
										
Connect the USB interface of the de- vice directly to a USB port of the com- puter using the USB cable supplied.										
Switch on the Navigation device.										
After a short time, the Navigation device is displayed as a removable storage medium on the computer.										
										
Click on  Start  >  All Programs  on the computer.										
										
Select  Becker .										
										
Click on  Content Manager .										
										
When the Content Manager is started, the program executes a number of steps before you can start to manage your navigation software content.										
Each time the program is called, a connection is established to the Internet to check whether a new version of the ContentManager is available. If a new software version is found, the Content Manager gives you the option of installing it. We recommend that you always agree to the upgrade, if one is available. If a new software version is found, you have the following options:										
Click on  Yes  to accept the new software version. The new version is downloaded and installed before you can start the Content Manager.										
										
Click on  No  to start the Content Manager with the version already installed.										
										
If the new version is a critical update, the  Exit  button will be shown instead of the  No  button. You must install the new version, otherwise you have to exit the application.										
										
If you have not yet made a backup of the navigation unit, the Content Manager will ask you each time it starts whether you would like to make a complete or partial backup copy.										
Transferring pictures										
"Images*, music* and videos* can be stored on a separate Micro SD memory card (not included in the scope of delivery) or in the internal memory of the Navigation device in the ""Media"" folder. Files can be transferred via a card reader or a USB connection."										
										
Faults										
Malfunctions in the operating system or in the unit are displayed accordingly. If the function you want cannot then be executed, you should restart the Navigation device using the On/Off switch.										
If the messages reappear or the unit doesnot function correctly for any other reason, please contact your local dealer. You can also try to find a solution to your problem in the FAQ in the Support area on the Becker homepage  (www.mybecker.com).										
										
What is navigation?										
"The term ""navigation"" (lat. navigare = to travel by sea) is generally understood to mean the determination of a vehicle’s location, the determination of its direction and its distance from the desired destination and the required route to get there. Stars, prominent landmarks, compasses and  satellites etc. are used as navigation tools."										
										
With the Navigation device, the location is determined by the GPS receiver. The Global Positioning System (GPS) was developed during the 1970s by the US military as a weapons guiding system. GPS is based on a total of 24 satellites which orbit the Earth and transmit signals. A GPS receiver receives these signals and calculates its distance to the individual satellites based on the signal travel times, and then determines your current geographical position.										
Signals from at least three satellites are required to determine your position; your height above sea level can be calculated if signals are received from four or more satellites. The Navigation device determines the direction and distance from the destination using a navigation computer and a digital street map held in its internal memory.										
For safety reasons, route guidance is given predominantly in spoken form. This is supported by a direction indicator and a map display on the touch screen.										
										
Selecting Navigation										
"Navigation mode is called up from the main menu. New destinations can be entered in the menu "" New destination "". Destinations that have already been visited or saved can be selected in the menu "										
My destinations .										
										
In the main menu, press the button  My destinations .										
										
										
Home addres s										
										
When you press the  Home  button you will be asked to enter an address if no home address has yet been entered.										
										
"Press the  Yes  to enter the address. You can then enter a destination as described under  ""The New destination   menu"" on page 43 ."										
										
If you have already entered your home address, you can start route guidance to your home address in the first line.										
A home address once entered can be modified later.										
"In the "" My destinations "" menu, next to the  Home  option press the "										
 button.										
										
Press the  Change  button to enter a new home address.										
										
The menu for selecting the destination appears.										
										
Here you can set the new home address for example using an intelligent text entry field.										
										
Smart Guess										
The two addresses that can be selected with the button, 										
 is a selection of the addresses last visited. Depending on the time of day and your current position, the two most likely destinations are displayed and can be selected directly.										
										
Last destinations list										
The last destinations visited and saved destinations are displayed in the Last destinations list and can be selected directly. The menu for entering destinations can also be called up using the fast access function.										
										
The destination  list										
										
The destination list displays, line by line, all destinations available for fast dialling. Each line of the destination list is divided into two fields. Each list field is designed as a button. The destination is shown on the right-hand button and the properties of the destination are displayed using the left icon.										
										
Icons us ed										
The following icons are used in the destination list:										
Operating the last destinations  list										
										
Start with existing destination										
The existing destinations are listed in the destinations list.										
Press the button for the desired  destination to start route calculation.										
										
The calculation begins.										
When the calculation is complete, the map appears and the route guidance begins.										
										
Scrolling through stored  destinations										
										
Using the 										
 buttons or the scroll wheel, it is possible to scroll through the list.										
										
Displaying or editing a destinat ion										
										
Any destination stored in fast access mode can be displayed and edited.										
Press the button to the left of the desired destination. A selection menu appears.										
Personal destinations										
Using the  Personal destinations  button you can call up Google™ points of interest that have been imported into the Navigation device and start route guidance to one.										
										
"See ""Selecting a destination from   Personal destinations"" on page 41."										
										
Contacts										
										
Using the  Contacts  button you can call up Microsoft® Outlook® contacts that have been imported into the Navigation device and start route guidance to the address listed in the contact.										
										
"See ""Selecting a destination from   Contacts"" on page 42."										
										
Selecting a destination from Personal destinations										
You can call up Google™ points of inter- est that have been imported into the Navigation  device and start route guid- ance to one.										
										
In the main menu, press the button  My destinations .										
										
Press  the   Personal  destinations										
										
button.										
										
A list of the available destinations will be displayed.										
Using the 										
 buttons or the scroll wheel, it is possible to scroll through the list.										
										
Select the desired destination.										
Route guidance to the selected destination will be initiated.										
Editing Personal destinations										
In the list of your own destinations, press the 										
 button in front of the destination that you wish to edit.										
										
Select  Delete entry  if you wish to delete the destination from the list. Select  Delete all entries  if you wish to delete the entire list.										
										
Select  Show details  if you wish to display details about the destination.										
										
Press the  Start  button to begin route guidance to the destination straight away.										
										
You can also display your chosen destination on the map ( On map ), store it in fast access mode ( Save ), display the route to the destination ( Show route ) or call the number if a telephone is connected and a phone number is available by pressing the button with the										
										
symbol.										
										
Selecting a destination from Contacts  You can call up Microsoft® Outlook® contacts that have been imported into the Navigation device and start route guidance to one.										
										
In the main menu, press the button  My destinations .										
										
Press the  Contacts  button.										
										
An input menu appears if there are more than 10 contacts. If there are fewer than										
										
10 entries, a list of contacts is displayed straight away.										
In the input menu, select the first letters of the entry you are looking for.										
Press the 										
 button when the name you want is displayed in the top line.										
										
If there are 5 or fewer entries available with the letter combination entered, a list containing these entries will automatically be displayed.										
Select the desired entry in the list.										
Press the  Start  button to begin route guidance to the address displayed for this contact straight away.										
										
You can also display the address shown for the contact on the map ( On map ), store itin fast access mode ( Save ), display the route to the destination ( Show route ) or call the number displayed if a phone number is provided (button with the 										
										
 symbol).										
										
If there are a number of addresses provided for the chosen contact, you can select one of them after pressing the button  .										
If there are a number of phone numbers provided for the chosen contact, you can select one of them after pressing the button  .										
The New destination menu										
In the main menu, press the button										
New destination .										
										
The menu for new destinations appears.										
										
Layout of the New destination  menu										
										
Enter addres s										
										
The various steps from selecting an address to starting route guidance can be carried out using the  Enter address  button.										
										
"See ""Entering the address"" on page 44."										
										
Select Point of Interest										
Points of interest such as airports and ferryports, restaurants, hotels, petrol stations or public buildings can be selected and route guidance started using the  Select Point of Interest 										
button.										
										
"See ""Points of interest"" on page 52."										
										
Travel Guide (model dependent)										
"With the travel guide, you can select, for example, MARCO POLO Top-Highlights or MARCO POLO Insider Tips and start the guide destination there.  See ""Travel  "										
"Guide (model dependent)"" on page 56."										
Select on map										
With the button  Select on map , you can select a destination directly on the map and start route guidance.										
										
"See ""Selecting a destination from the   map"" on page 57."										
										
Enter geo-coordinates										
The geographic coordinates for a destination can be entered and route guidance started via the  Enter geo- coordinates  button.										
										
"See ""Coordinate entry"" on page 58."										
										
Route planni ng										
										
A route with several waypoints can be planned using the  Route planning  button.										
										
"See ""Route planning"" on page 58."										
Entering the address										
The  Enter address  button in the destination input menu opens the menu for entering addresses.										
										
In the destination input menu, press the  Enter address  button.										
										
The menu for entering addresses appears.										
										
Selecting a co untry										
										
You can select a country from those available using the button for the country of destination. A country is adopted automatically in the address input menu after selection. If a country of destination has already been entered it will remain until you select a different country.										
Press the button containing the country of destination to access the country selection list.										
The selection list appears.										
										
Press the button for the desired country.										
Selecting an address and starting route guidance										
You can enter the exact destination address in the address input menu.										
										
The following settings can be made in the address input menu:										
Town										
Zip code (or postal code)										
Street and house number										
Junctions as an orientation aid										
It is also possible to:										
"search for a point of interest near to the address entered ( POI search ). This can be entered as described under  ""Point of interest near to an address""   on page 54."										
										
save the destination in fast access mode,										
show the route on the map. For details please see  page 97.										
										
start the route guidance straight away.										
										
Selecting a tow n										
										
The destination can be entered by either using the name or ZIP code.										
"When you enter the letters of a place, the navigation device displays suggestions  (See ""Accepting proposals"" on page  30). If you do not want to accept the proposal, just enter the other letters of the location you want."										
										
The Navigation device excludes all impossible letter combinations and ZIP codes and activates only letter fields or numerical fields that lead to an existing location or ZIP code.										
										
Select the option of entering the town or postcode.										
										
Enter the letters of the destination town or the numbers of the postcode consecutively.										
										
When sufficient letters have been entered it will automatically switch to a list from which you can select the town. However, you can switch to the list before this by pressing the   button.										
Using the town  list										
										
Once a few letters of the desired town have been entered you can display a list of all the towns with the relevant letter combinations or this list will be displayed automatically.										
Press the 										
 button on the right of the screen to call up the list.										
										
Using the 										
 buttons or the scroll wheel, it is possible to scroll through the list.										
										
Press the button for the required town.										
										
Selecting the st reet										
										
In the  Street  menu field the street and house number can be entered separate- ly using a letter and number field.										
										
The Navigation device excludes all impossible letter combinations and activates only those letters that could give an existing street name.										
A house number can only be chosen once the street has been selected and if house numbers are included in the data.										
Enter the letters of the destination street consecutively.										
When sufficient letters have been entered it will automatically switch to a list from which you can select the street. However, you can switch to the list before this by pressing the   button.										
										
Using the street li st										
										
Once a few letters of the desired street have been entered you can display a list of all the streets with the relevant letter combinations or this list will be displayed automatically.										
Press the 										
 button on the right of the screen to call up the street list.										
										
You can scroll through the displayed list using the 										
 buttons.										
										
Press the button for the desired street.										
Selecting the In tersection										
										
After entering the destination town and street, you can enter a junction so as to further limit the choice.										
Press the  Intersection  button.										
										
The input menu for the name of the junction will appear.										
Enter the name of the junction.										
Once a few letters of the desired street have been entered a list will automati- cally be displayed.										
Press the button for the desired street.										
										
Selecting a house number										
After entering the destination town and street, you can enter a hous e number so as to further limit the choice.										
										
Press the  No.  button.										
										
The input menu for the house number will appear.										
Enter the house number and then press the	button.									
										
Displaying the route										
Once the address has been entered, the address input menu allows the route to the  destination to be displayed on the map.										
										
Press the  Show route  button to display the route on the map.										
										
The route is calculated.										
										
You can start the route guidance directly from this screen using the  Start  button.										
										
"The other options on this screen are described under  ""Displaying the whole   route"" on page 97 ."										
										
Storing a  destination										
										
In the address input menu, the  Save  button opens a menu where a name can be entered for the specified destination. If the desired name has been entered and 										
										
 has been pressed to accept it, the destination is transferred to fast access mode and protected.										
										
Starting  navigation										
										
The  Start  button starts the route guidance.										
										
All data entered thus far is processed when calculating the route.										
Press  Start  to start the route guidance.										
										
The route is calculated. The map will then be displayed and the route guidance will begin.										
										
If the route guidance is already running and a waypoint has already been entered you will be asked whether the new destination should replace the old destination or the waypoint.										
										
If the route guidance is already running you will be asked whether the new destination should replace the old destination or if the new destination should be regarded as a waypoint.										
										
Select between  Add as stopover ,  Add as new destination  or  Replace old destination .										
										
Select  Replace stopover  or  Replace old destination .										
										
Entering address by speech (selected mode ls)  You can start the spoken address entry from the address entry menu by press- ing the 										
 button.										
										
After pressing the 										
 button, a menu that shows you how to say an address will be displayed.										
										
You can say the address as soon as you see the lines next to the stylised face.										
										
Say the address.										
If your entry is unique, after a short time the menu for entering addresses will be displayed with your entry filled in.										
										
If the address displayed does not match the address you said, you can make appropriate changes.										
If the address is correct, you can start route guidance, display the route or store the address as described on  page 48.										
										
If your entry was not unique or the Navigation device was not able to uniquely assign your entry, you will be shown appropriate lists. You can then select the address you want from these lists.										
Depending on your entry, lists with town names, lists with street names or combined lists with town and street names can be displayed.										
The following example shows a list in which a town can be selected.										
										
Entries identified with the 										
 symbol open up a further list when they are selected. This can be necessary if, for example, the same town name occurs a number of times in the set country.										
										
Once you have selected the town or street you want in the lists, the menu for entering addresses is displayed after a short time with your entry filled in.										
You can then start route guidance, display the route or store the address as described on  page 48.										
										
Speech Dialogue System (selected models)										
The Speech Dialogue System is an ex- tension of the spoken address entry. As well as entering addresses directly, se- lected device functions can be operated via speech dialogue. This function is available in the following languages: German, English, Italian, Spanish and French.										
										
Explanation of symbols										
The following symbols are displayed on the left-hand side of the screen:										
	Please speak									
	Please listen									
	"Please click
(to start voice control)"									
										
Objective										
										
You can enter the following destinations via speech entry:										
Address										
Point of Interest										
Last destinations										
Home										
To enter an address, see  page 58.										
										
If you have not yet entered a destination,										
										
or you have not set a home address (be- cause this is the first time you have used the device), these fields are greyed out.										
										
Points of interest are divided into differ- ent categories. Route guidance is also activated in the screenshot above, so the device asks if the petrol station should be located on the route or near the destina- tion.										
										
Route										
										
When you enter a destination, the follow- ing options are available:										
Show route										
Delete route										
Block road										
If there is not currently a route activated, this field is greyed out.										
										
More...										
										
When you click on  More... , you can choose between three menu items.										
										
Under  Where Am I? , you can determine the current GPS position.										
										
If you select  Country info , you will be giv- en information about the country you are currently in.										
										
Help  gives you useful information about speech entry. For example, it lists all phrases which can be used as soon as the speech dialogue is started. As well as these global commands, you will also find help for entering addresses or for points of interest.										
										
Live POI Search (model dependent)										
With the Live POI Search your Becker navigation device establishes a connec- tion to our live Server. You have access to millions of addresses in Europe.										
You can choose between:										
A Live POI Search in the vicinity,										
A Live POI Search near to an address										
A Live POI Search near to a destination Subsequent operation is similar to how it is described in the chapter entitled Points of interest on  page 52 , except that no categories can be selected.										
										
Points of interest										
Points of interest (POI) are included in the map and can be displayed there. Points of interest include airports and ferry ports, restaurants, hotels, petrol stations, public buildings. You can use points of interests as navigation destinations.										
										
In the main menu, press the button										
New destination .										
										
Press the  Select Point of Interest										
										
button.										
										
You can choose between:										
a point of interest in the vicinity,										
a point of interest near to an address,										
a point of interest near to a destination,										
a point of interest along the route or										
entering a point of interest directly.										
Point of interest in the vicini ty										
										
Press the  POI nearby  button.										
										
Press the arrow keys 										
 or use the scroll wheel to scroll through the list displayed.										
										
Select one of the available categories.										
For some categories, e.g. petrol stations, a further selection menu is displayed in which you can narrow down the choice further, e.g. by brand.										
										
If you have selected the category, any points of interest belonging to the relevant category and available within the area in question will now be displayed.										
										
The name, distance as the crow flies and the address is displayed for each entry.										
Select the desired point of interest.										
										
You will now receive additional information about your chosen destination.										
Press the  Start  button to begin route guidance to the point of interest directly.										
										
In addition, the selected point of interest can be:										
displayed on the map ( On map ),										
										
saved in fast access mode ( Save ),										
										
used for displaying a route to the POI ( Show route ),										
										
if a telephone is connected and a phone number is available by pressing the button with the 										
 symbol. (depending on the model)										
										
Point of interest near to an  address										
										
Press  POI near location .										
										
Select the desired country.										
In the  City  or  Code  field, enter the town where you wish to search for a point of interest.										
										
Press the  Select category  button.										
										
The available Points of interest categories for the city entered will be displayed.										
"Select the desired point of interest as described under  ""Point of interest in   the vicinity"" on page 53 ."										
										
										
Press the  Start  button to begin route guidance to the point of interest directly.										
										
However, you can also store your chosenpoint of interest in fast access mode ( Save ) or display the route to the point of interest ( Show route ).										
										
By pressing of the 										
 button next to the selected POI, you can display the additionally available information for the destination.										
										
Point of interest near to dest ination										
										
Press the  POI near destination  button.										
										
The categories available near to the destination are displayed.										
"Select the desired point of interest as described under  ""Point of interest in   the vicinity"" on page 53."										
										
POI on  route										
										
Press the  POI on route  button										
										
The available Point of Interest categories available on the whole route will be displayed.										
"Select the desired point of interest on the route as described under  ""Point of   interest in the vicinity"" on page 53."										
										
Entering a point of interest dire ctly										
										
Press the  POI search by name  button.										
										
Enter the desired point of interest or part of the name.										
Press the 										
 button.										
										
The Navigation device displays in a list all										
the points of interest corresponding to the name entered.										
Select the desired destination in the list.										
										
You will now receive additional informa- tion about your chosen destination.										
										
Press the  Start  to begin route guidance to the point of interest straight away. However, you can also display your chosen point of interest on the map ( On map ), store it in fast access mode (										
Save ) or display the route to the point of										
										
interest ( Show route ).										
										
Calling special destination phone number (depending on the model)										
You can dial directly phone numbers spec ified in the information on a point of interest										
										
The prerequisite here is that a cell phone is connected via Bluetooth® wireless technology with the Navigation device.										
										
Press the button with the 										
 symbol shown at the bottom of the point of interest information screen.										
										
The call will be initiated.										
Additional point of interest information										
Any additional information that is provided for a point of interest can also be displayed.										
										
To display the additional information, press the  More  button shown at the bottom of the point of interest information screen.										
										
You can scroll through the displayed text using the arrow buttons or the scroll wheel.										
Travel Guide (model dependent)										
"The Travel Guide acts in a similar fashion to the ""Enter point of interest"" function  (see also page 44)."										
										
The Travel Guide for Berlin is already pre-installed. All travel guides are available in 5 languages (D, E, I, S, F). Other languages are represented in English. Additional cities can be purchased from the ContentManager  (see also page 33).										
										
Selecting a destination from the map  You may also select a  destination directly from the displayed map.										
										
Press the  Select on map  button. The map display appears.										
										
Press the desired point lightly on the surface of the screen.										
A flashing red cross will be displayed at this point.										
Press the  Select  button.										
										
Where available, the address of your chosen point is displayed.										
Press the  Start  button to begin route guidance to the destination straight away.										
										
You can also search for points of interest in the vicinity of your chosen point using the POI nearby button.										
However, you can also store your chosen point in fast access mode ( Save ) or display the route to the point of interest ( Show route ).										
										
You can select a new destination by touching the map even during the route guidance in progress, in order to insert a stopover or to replace the old destination. When touching the display, a compass appears with arrows to adjust the horizontal display and the vertical display angle of the map. This function is described on  page 93.										
										
Coordinate entry										
You can also enter your  destination using geographic coordinates.										
										
In the main menu, press the button										
New destination .										
										
Press  Enter geo-coordinates .										
										
Using	select the value you wish to change.									
										
Using the two buttons indicated by select the direction required for the geographic longitude and latitude (east/west or north/south).										
Then enter the desired values using the buttons 										
 to 										
.										
										
The entry field at the beginning may be										
displayed greyed out. Delete any entries in the field with the backspace button, in order to use the entry field. You can enter coordinates in three different ways.										
The following formats can be used:										
Degrees Minutes Seconds.Decimal seconds e.g. 42°52’46.801“										
Degrees Minutes.Decimal minutes										
e.g. 48° 53.56667'										
Decimal degrees e.g. 48.89277778										
										
Press the   button.										
Where possible, an address matching the coordinates will be displayed. You can view the destination on the map, store it, display the route to the destination or start the route guidance straight away.										
Route  planning										
										
The route planning menu allows you to create and select individual routes. To do this, enter the individual destination points for the desired route. It is then possible to travel to these points consecutively without having to enter any further information. You can also optimise the destination points entered and in so doing change their order.										
In the main menu, press the button										
New destination .										
										
Press the  Route planning  button.										
										
In the route menu you can create a new route by pressing the  Create new route  button. Previously stored routes are shown in a list below this.										
										
										
Scrolling through stored routes										
Press the arrow keys 										
 or use the scroll wheel on the right of the screen to scroll through the stored routes.										
										
Editing stored routes										
You can add additional stages to a stored route, change the name of the route or delete it.										
Press the 										
 button in front of the route you wish to edit.										
										
By pressing  Add stage  you can now add a stage to the route.										
										
After pressing  Rename route  you can give the route a new name.										
										
Pressing  Delete route  will allow you to delete the route from the stored routes.										
										
Selecting and starting a route										
Press a route to select it.										
The route is loaded and displayed in the stage menu.										
										
Press the top button.										
										
Select the start point or your current position as the start point for route guidance.										
The individual stages are calculated.										
A map of the stages will then be displayed.										
										
Press the  Start  button to start guidance for this route.										
										
You can call up the route options using the  Options  button.										
										
Simulation of the route										
There is a play button 										
 on the left under the map, used to start a simulation of the route.										
										
If you touch the display after starting, a control bar is displayed at the top with control buttons for the simulation. You can pause the simulation with the button, and continue it with the button. The 										
 button allows you to fast forward the simulation by a 16x speed. You can move from route section to route section with the 										
										
 and 										
 buttons.										
										
If there is no further action, the control bar disappears after a few seconds.										
Creating a new route										
Drücken Sie in der Routenplanung die Taste  Create new route .										
										
"You can now enter an intermediate des- tination as described under  ""The New   destination menu"" on page 43  ( Enter ad- dress ,  Select from last destinations, Se- lect Point of Interest"										
,  Travel Guide ,  Con- tacts, Personal destinations ,  Select on map  or  Enter geo-coordinates ). You also have the option of quickly selecting a destination using the 										
Select from last destinations  button.										
										
In the input menu, press the  OK  button to accept the relevant intermediate destination.										
										
										
Press  Add stage  to enter further intermediate destinations as described above.										
When you have entered all intermedi- ate destinations, press the  Done  button.										
										
Give the route a name of your choice. The stage menu for the new route will be displayed.										
Editing a route Select the route you wish to edit.										
Press the 										
 button in front of the stage you wish to edit.										
										
The edit menu will be displayed. The following options are available:										
										
Optimising a route										
If you have entered several destinations for a route, you can use the Navigation device to optimise the order of the destinations for the journey distance. The route stored is retained even after optimization, however.										
Call up the map display for the stages of the route.										
										
Press  Optimise .										
										
The route is optimised and recalculated.										
										
The optimised route is displayed.										
Navigation settings										
The navigation settings contain all the settings that are relevant to the navigation functions.										
										
In  the main menu, press the 										
 button.										
										
Press the  Navigation settings  button.										
										
This will take you to the navigation settings menu.										
										
Configuration										
Various pages containing functions are available in the menu:										
										
										
You can go to the next or previous page of the settings by pressing the 										
 and  buttons or the scroll wheel.										
										
The Map view button										
You can select whether the map is to be displayed in 3D or 2D mode, in a split scre en with 3D or 2D display or in arrow mode.										
										
You can also select whether or not 3D buildings available in towns should be displayed in 3D mode.										
Further setting options are available to you in the extended settings.										
										
Press the  Map view  button in the settings menu.										
										
The  Map view  settings window appears.										
										
Press the button	or	to select whether to use 2D or 3D mode.								
										
Press the button	to select the entire map.									
										
Press the button	for a split screen.									
										
Press the button	for arrow mode.									
										
To call up the extended settings, press the  Advanced  button.										
										
										
The following setting options are available in the extended settings:										
Auto zoom										
You can select how the map changes when approaching an action point or at different speed.										
Select POI categories										
You can select which symbols are displayed for points of interest on the map.										
Infobox data fields										
In this menu you can define the data to be displayed in the Info box in the top left corner of the map view. You can select between Speed, Speed limit, Time and Height.										
3D City models										
You can select whether or not 3D buildings available in towns should be displayed in 3D mode 										
 or not 										
. This option is only available with the 3D view active.										
										
Street names 2D / Street names 3D  You can select whether the street names should be di splayed (										
) or not (										
) in 3D or 2D mode.										
										
2D heading up										
You can select whether the map should always be orientated to the direction of travel (										
) or to the north (										
) in 2D mode. This option is  only available with the 2D view active.										
										
Auto zoom										
Press the  Auto zoom  button in the extended settings.										
										
Pressing the  Auto zoom  button switches the zoom function on (										
) or off (										
). When the zoom function is switched on, you can select whether the autozoom action should be weak, medium or strong.										
										
Select POI categories										
You can select which POI symbols are to be displayed on the map.										
Press the  Select POI categories  button in the extended settings.										
										
Selecting  Show all POIs  displays all points of interest on the map.										
										
Selecting  Show no POIs  displays no points of interest on the map.										
Selecting  User defined selection  and then pressing the  Select POIs  button allows you to determine for yourself in the menu which then appears whether each individual points of interest category is displayed or not.										
										
You can then switch the display of entire categories on (	) or off (									
). After pressing the		button beside a category you can switch subcategories in								
										
further menus on or off.										
Confirm all your settings by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
Selecting Info box data fields										
In this menu you can define the data to be displayed in the Info box in the top left corner of the map view.										
Press the Info box data fields button.										
										
The Info box data field selection window appears.										
										
Touch the first field to select one of the possible options.										
An options list appears on the right side over the window.										
										
After selecting a route (cell with route), the following display options are availa- ble: Distance, Remaining time, Arrival time, Speed, Speed limit, Time and Height.										
										
Under these options, you can select displays for the travel without a selected route. Here you can only select between Speed, Speed limit, Time and Height.										
										
3D city view										
With this option, you can select whether or not 3D buildings available in towns should be displayed in 3D mode or not. In the Advanced menu, press the 3D city view button to turn the function on or off.										
										
Confirm your setting in the Advanced menu by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
The Route overview button										
With the options in this setup menu you can select the Points of Interest to be displayed and whether TMC reports are displayed in the map view when pressing the Route overview  button.										
Activate the option All Destinations.										
										
The Route Overview displays the Points of Interest selected in the POI Categories menu. The display is recalculated every two minutes.										
Activate the option TMC On Route.										
										
The Route Overview in the map view displays TMC announcements.										
Press the Select POI Categories button.										
										
The Select POI Categories window is opened. Three point of interest catego- ries can be selected.										
										
										
If you touch the preset option of one of the POI Categories (POI 1, 2 and 3), a selection list with 20 POI types appears.										
										
The Guidance info button In the  Guidance info  settings window you can select which additional information you would like displayed during route guidance.										
										
Press the  Guidance info  button in the settings menu.										
										
The  Guidance info  settings window appears.										
										
The following settings are available:										
										
Setting	Meaning									
Lane info	"When this function is
enabled, a small arrow indicates which lane you should move into in the case of multi- lane roads."									
										
										
Press the relevant button to switch the required function on 										
 or off 										
.										
										
Confirm your selection by pressing										
the 										
 button.										
										
The Route options button You can edit your driving profile in the  Route options  settings window. The settings made here have an effect on the route selection and on the c alculation of the estimated journey times.										
										
In the settings menu, press the  Route options  button.										
										
The  Route options  settings window appears.										
										
Selecting the vehicle profile (depending on model)										
This setting influences the calculation of the expected time of arrival and blocks										
e.g. motorways for the bicycle setting.										
Select the mode of travel or the required vehicle p rofile after pressing the  Vehicle  button.										
										
The different profiles are displayed and you can select the desired profile by pressing the appropriate button.										
Saved profile truck with trailer Saved bus profile										
Saved mobile home profile General truck profile										
Car profile Motorcycle profile Bicycle profile Pedestrian profile										
After selecting the desired profile, it is displayed.										
"You can now change the selected profile, as described under  ""Truck and mobile   home functions (depending on model)""   on page 70  (only for selected models)."										
										
Press	the	settings	button 							
 or 										
 button.										
										
The window for selecting the maximum speed is displayed.										
										
Select a speed and exit the speed menu with the back button 										
.										
										
Exit the vehicle selection menu, too, with the back button 										
.										
										
The selected vehicle type is now displayed.										
The required profile is displayed once selected.										
										
Truck and mobile home functions (depending on model)										
You can select or set the  vehicle profile. For the truck profiles (depending on the model), you can define or select dimen- sions, weight, number of axles etc.										
										
Once the appropriate profile is set, a route is calculated on the basis of these settings.										
See also the chapter on supplementary functions for trucks and mobile homes on  page 10 4.										
										
Call up the option menu for the map screen.										
										
Press the  Route options  button (de- pending on model).										
										
Press the  Vehicle  button										
										
Different menus are now displayed de- pending on the vehicle profile previously set.										
Confirm the profile currently set by se- lecting  OK  or select  Change profile  to change the profile.										
										
You have different operation options in the car or truck profile menus displayed. You do not have any further setting op- tions for all other profiles.										
										
For the car profile:										
										
For the general truck profile or saved truck profiles (depending on the model):										
										
Here you can set the profile settings di- rectly by pressing the buttons in the right-hand area as described on the fol- lowing pages.										
										
Setting truck profiles										
Select one of the saved truck profiles or the general truck profile.										
You can now set the selected profile: With this button you can set the size of the truck.										
With this button you can set whether the truck has a trailer and how many axles there are.										
With this button you can set the maximum permissible weight as well as the actual weight.										
With this button you can set the haz- ardous materials class of the truck. Use this button to select tunnel rest- rictions. ADR tunnel categories B to										
E are available for selection.										
With the three saved truck profiles you have the option to customize the truck symbol  and name										
The window is displayed for select- ing the maximum speed										
										
Setting size										
In the profile settings, press the button for setting the size.										
										
Press the button next to the dimension to be entered.										
An entry menu will appear.										
Enter the desired dimension.										
Confirm the entry in the entry menu by pressing 										
.										
										
Once you have made all the required set-										
tings, confirm your settings by selecting										
.										
										
Setting trailer and axles										
In the profile settings, press the button for the trailer and axle settings.										
Use the	button to select whether there is a trailer (									
) or not (										
).										
										
Select the total number of axles.										
Confirm your settings by selecting										
.										
										
Setting weight										
In the profile settings, press the button for setting the weight.										
										
Press the button next to the weight to be entered.										
An entry menu will appear.										
Enter the desired weight.										
Confirm the entry in the entry menu by pressing 										
.										
										
Once you have made all the required set-										
tings, confirm your settings by selecting										
.										
										
Setting hazardous materials class										
In the profile set tings, press the button for setting the hazardous materials class.										
										
Select the required hazardous materi- als class.										
										
Set tunnel category (ADR)										
In the profile settings, press the button for setting the tunnel categories  .										
										
Select the required tunnel category.										
If you do not select any of the available restrictions (B to E), all tunnels will be used for your route.										
Once you have made all the required settings, confirm your settings by se- lecting 										
.										
										
Selecting vehicle category and name										
Once you have changed one of the truck profiles, you have the option to enter the displayed truck symbol and name.										
Press the	button to enter another name.									
										
The entry menu will appear.										
Enter the desired name.										
Confirm the entry in the entry menu by pressing 										
.										
										
The name is changed.										
										
Press the	button to change the displayed symbol.									
										
Select the desired symbol. The new ve- hicle category is displayed in the profile.										
Selecting the route type After pressing the  Route type  button, select one of the following options.										
										
Time-dependent route guidance										
If this function is switched on (										
), information (statistical information) on the possible speed on certain segments at certain times of the day is also taken into account in the route calculation, 										
provided this is available. This provides a more accurately calculated arrival time and may even result in a different route being selected.										
										
Avoiding particular types of road										
After pressing the button  Avoid  you can exclude various types of road (e.g.  motorways ,  ferries  and  toll roads ), from the route calculation.										
										
You can set one of the following options for each of these road types.										
										
Option	Meaning									
"Permitted

"	"With this option, the
road type in question is included in calculating the route."									
"Prohibited
"	"With this option, the
road type in question is not included in calculating the route."									
										
Confirm your selection in the  Route options  window ny pressing the  OK  button.										
										
The TMC button										
You can configure settings for the reception of traffic  announcements in the  TMC  settings window.										
										
Press  TMC  in the settings menu.										
										
The  TMC  settings window appears.										
										
Setting	Meaning									
Rerouting	"This button allows you
to choose whether the route change should be made Never, Automatically or Manually. (See ""Taking announcements into consideration when calculating routes"" on page 86.) The setting Never is equivalent to switching off the TMC function."									
										
Confirm your settings by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
An automatic search procedure presets the transmitter with the best reception. The currently received TMC-transmitter appears on the display.										
The TMC announcements can be spoken by the voice, if the navigation settings in the  Voice guidance  menu the  Announce TMC events  option is activated.										
										
The Traffic Button (model dependent)  When the navigation device has access to the server, the heading  Traffic  and an- other icon are displayed instead of TMC. The traffic announcements will always then be retrieved updated from the serv- er. The settings are the same as de- scribed in the chapter entitled TMC.										
										
The Voice guidance button										
In the  Voice guidance  settings window you can make settings relating to the voice guidance of the Navigation device.										
										
Press the  Voice guidance  button in the settings menu.										
										
The  Voice guidance  settings window appears.										
										
The following setting options are then available:										
Voice										
You can select the voice that will make the navigation announcements for the language that has been set.										
Volume										
You can select the standard volume for voice announcements for each start of the Navigation device, or switch off voice announcements completely.										
Interior noise level										
With the  Interior noise level  button, you can adjust the speed-dependent volume control. To do this, select the interior volume level suitable for your vehicle.										
										
With the  Dynamic  setting (selected models), the interior noise is meas- ured with the aid of the integrated mi- crophone, the volume is then continually adjusted depending on the noise level.										
										
Announce streets										
Using the  Announce streets  button you can switch the announcement of the names of streets into wh ich you are to turn on (										
) or off (										
).										
										
Announce time of arrival										
										
Using the  Announce time of arrival  button you can switch the automatic announcement of the expected arrival times on (	) or off (	).								
										
Setting the Voice										
In the  Voice  settings window you can set the voice that will make the navigation  announcements for the language that has been set.										
										
In the  Voice guidance  settings window, press the  Voice  button.										
										
The  Voice  settings window appears.										
										
Select the desired voice.										
										
A short example announcement is given.										
Confirm your selection by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
Setting the Volume										
With the  Volume  settings window, you can set the standard volume for voice announcements for each start of the Navigation device, or switch off voice announcements completely. Depending on the situation, this setting can be fitted into the map display.										
										
In the  Voice guidance  settings window, press the  Volume  button.										
										
The  Volume  settings window appears.										
										
Select the desired volume with the 										
 and 										
 buttons or the scroll wheel.										
										
The voice output can be switched off completely or turned back on by pressing the Mute button.										
Confirm your settings by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
The Warnings button										
In the  Warnings  settings window you can select which warnings are to be displayed by the Navigation device or which warning sounds are to be output.										
										
In the settings menu, press the										
Warnings  button.										
										
The  Warnings  settings window appears.										
										
										
The following setting options are then available:										
Driver alerts (depending on the model)										
You can have signs displayed, for										
example for dangerous curves or steep gradients, provided this information is stored in the map data.										
Speed info										
You can select whether speed limits are displayed in parallel to the navigation.										
You can also receive an audible warning about exceeding the speed limit.										
Speed camera warnings *										
										
You can receive a warning about permanent speed checks.										
										
Environmental zones (depending on model)										
You can let yourself be warned about										
environmental zones.										
Truck Navigation (depending on model)  You can let yourself be warned about loading and vehicle-specific restrictions (e.g. height, weight, restrictions for haz- ardous materials).										
										
Setting Driver alerts										
If this information is saved in the map material and is supported by your navigation device, you can display information signs, e.g. for dangerous bends or descending gradients. In addition, you can define whether the display of the sign is also  to be accompanied by a warning sound.										
										
In the  Warnings  settings window, press the  Driver alerts  button.										
										
The  Driver alerts  settings window appears.										
										
The available driver alerts are divided into 4 categories. The four categories can be enabled 										
 or disabled 										
 individually. The warning sound can be set individual- ly for each of the four categories by pressing the symbol with the bell (										
										
 warning sound switched on).										
										
The following signs are available in the individual categories:										
Curve warnings										
This category includes warning signs that relate to sharp curves.										
Traffic regulations										
This category includes other traffic regulations, such as no passing zones.										
General warnings										
This category includes all other warning signs, such as steep gradients, falling rocks.										
Informatory road signs										
This category contains the available information signs.										
										
Confirm your settings by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
Setting environmental zones (depending on model)										
										
You can let yourself be warned about en- vironmental zones provided that this in- formation is saved in the card material and is supported by your navigation sys- tem. This function can be activated 										
 or deactivated 										
. By pressing the symbol with the bell, you can set the audible warning signal (										
 audible warning signal activated).										
										
Confirm your settings by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
Truck warnings (depending on model)										
										
You can let yourself be warned about en- vironmental zones provided that this in- formation is saved in the card material and is supported by your navigation sys- tem. The function can be adjusted sepa- rately for journeys with and without ac- tive navigation. The function can be activated  or deactivated  respec-										
										
tively. By pressing the symbol with the bell, you can set the audible warning sig- nal (										
 audible warning signal acti- vated).										
										
Confirm your settings by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
Setting Speed  info										
The  Speed info  settings window allows to select whether speed limits are displayed in parallel to the navigation. You can also receive an audible warning about exceeding the speed limit.										
										
In the  Warnings  settings window, press the  Speed info  button.										
										
The  Speed info  settings window appears.										
										
The following settings are available.										
										
										
Setting	Meaning									
Out of city	"Select the amount over
the speed limit at which you would like to receive an acoustic warning within built-up areas."									
Alert	"An audible signal is to
sound when exceeding speed limits."									
Voice output	"A speaker’s voice warns
you of exceeding the speed limit."									
										
Confirm your selection by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
The Blocked roads button										
"In the  Blocked roads  settings window you can unblock previously permanently blocked roads  (See ""Blocking a section of   the road permanently"" on page 12 6) or modify "										
the block (time and days of week of block).										
										
In the settings menu, press the										
Blocked roads  button.										
										
A window is displayed containing the roads that have previously been blocked.										
Select the blocked road you want.										
										
The road is currently blocked for all days of the week, for the whole day 										
. You can now set whether or not the road should be blocked for each day of the week.										
										
Press the buttons with the days on which the road should not be blocked 										
.										
										
Press the clock symbol under one of the days and limit the block of this day to the required time of the day.										
										
You can now set whether or not the road should be blocked for each day of the week.										
Confirm your settings by pressing the back button 										
.										
										
or										
Press the 										
 button under one of the days and set up to two times when the road should be blocked.										
										
										
1	1	1	1							
2	2	2	2							
										
Using the buttons set the first period when the road is to be blocked on this day.										
Using the buttons set the second period when the road is to be blocked on this day if necessary.										
Confirm your settings by pressing the back button 										
.										
										
The Vehicle data button										
This menu allows the calculation of an economic route by using the fuel consumption of the vehicle.										
Press the  Vehicle data  button.										
										
The Vehicle data window is displayed.										
										
The following settings can be made:										
										
Press the  Urban  button to enter the av- erage fuel consumption of the vehicle within cities. The input menu for num- bers appears. Any existing inputs can be deleted with the arrow buttons. En- ter the fuel consumption value with the number keys. The value can be giv- en to one decimal point. Confirm your entry by pressing the  OK 										
button.										
										
Press the  Extra-urban  button to enter the average fuel consumption of the vehicle outside cities. This can be entered as described for the In city value.										
										
Press the  Type of engine  button to set your engine type. The display changes by pressing the button repeatedly. You can select Petrol, Diesel and Hybrid as the engine type.										
										
Press on the  Fuel economy  button to change to the consumption unit. Pres- sing this button repeatedly will change the display. You can choose from the consumption units l/100 km, MPG (UK) and MPG (US).										
										
The Format button										
In the  Format  settings window you can set the measurement  units to be used for times and distances.										
										
In the settings menu, press the  Format										
										
button.										
										
The  Format  settings window appears.										
										
Press the  Time  button to switch be- tween the 12 hour clock and the 24 hour clock.										
										
Press the  Distance  button to switch between kilometres and miles.										
										
Confirm your settings by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
The Time button										
You can select the time zone relevant for your location in the  Time  settings window. This setting is important for the correct  calculation of the estimated time of arrival.										
										
Press  Time  in the settings menu.										
										
The  Time  settings window appears.										
										
Using the  Time zone  you can set whether the time zone should be set automati- cally by the Navigation device or not ( Use auto time zone  on 										
 or  Use auto time zone 										
off 										
).										
										
If the automatic function is switched off,										
you can select the desired time zone by pressing the button below  Use auto time zone .										
										
The Reset button										
You can reset the navigation settings to their factory settings.										
The settings will then be reset. The fast access mode data, stored routes, blocked ro utes, voice and home address are retained.										
										
Press the  Reset  button.										
										
Press the  Yes  button.										
										
The navigation settings are reset to their factory settings.										
Traffic announcements using TMC (depending on the model)										
Your Navigation device can receive traffic announcements (TMC messages) from radio stations. The power supply with the integrated TMC antenna must be connected to the carrier plate for this function.										
Traffic announcements are transmitted by radio stations via the TMC (Traffic Message Channel) in addition to the radio programme and are received and analysed by the navigation system. Receiving  traffic announcements is free of charge.										
										
The Navigation device constantly checks whether there are any relevant announcements for the route that has been set. All traffic problems that have been received are shown on the map.										
"If the continuous checks determine that a traffic announcement is relevant to route guidance, the unit can automatically recalculate a new route to the destination  (See ""The TMC button"" on"										
  page 74 ).										
										
Live Traffic - Traffic Announce- ments via Data Connection (model dependent)										
Your navigation device can receive traffic announcements from a server via a data connection. These announcements are more up-to-date than data received via TMC and are also available more quickly. There must also be an appropriate data connection. Subsequent use of the traffic announcements is the same as de- scribed below for TMC.										
If a connection to the server is not possi- ble, the system then tries to switch over to TMC traffic announcements (model dependent). As soon as TMC is displayed, there is no connection to the Life Traffic server.										
In the Chapter entitled WiFi Settings on  page 138  we describe how to create a data connection.										
										
Displaying TMC messages on the map  Current TMC messages are displayed  on the map graphically. Sections of the route where there are traffic problems are highlighted blue. Arrows indicating the traffic direction which is affected by the traffic problem continue to be displayed.										
										
In addition to the coloured mark, a warning sign is displayed on the stretch of road affected.										
										
Using TMC										
When the Navigation device has been at- tached to the carrier plate (power supply with the integrated TMC antenna con- nected), your Navigation device will re- ceive up-to-date traffic announcements. It is then possible to calculate dynamic routes (traffic jam diversion).										
You can also view traffic announcements directly.										
"Settings for TMC can be made as described under  ""The TMC button"" on   page 74 ."										
										
In the main menu, press the 										
 button.										
										
The map overview appears.										
										
The message list appears when you press 										
  TMC List view .										
										
You can scroll through the list using the										
arrow keys 										
 or the scroll wheel on the right-hand edge of the screen.										
										
The following is displayed for each traffic announcement:										
The type of problem and the street number (motorway, A-road or district road)										
The distance as the crow flies from the current position, and the length and duration of the problem if applicable										
The part of the route with the travel direction										
If a TMC message lies on your route, the message is indicated by the sign										
.										
										
Traffic announcements received via Premium-TMC are indicated by the symbol.										
A red twisted arrow next to the traffic report 										
 warns for traffic jams that need to be avoided. If the arrow is crossed out in grey and red 										
, the route does not go around										
										
the traffic jam.										
										
Reading a message										
Press on the desired message in the list. The message display appears on the top of the screen, while a map is displayed below it with the related route section. Press on the message again to display more information on the traffic obstruction. By pressing it again, the extra information disap- pears.										
The message display appears.										
										
Press the arrow buttons 										
 to scroll in the messages.										
										
Press the 										
 button to return to the message list.										
										
Taking announcements into consideration when calculating routes										
Your Navigation device can take  traffic announcements into consideration when calculating a route. You have the option of setting this function to automatic, manual or never in the 										
										
" menu in the navigation settings with the TMC option (see  ""The TMC button"" on page  74)."										
										
Automatic recalculation										
If the traffic on your route is obstructed, the Navigation device checks whether an expedient detour of the obstruction is possible. If an expedient detour is possible, then an alternative route is calculated and you are guided via the alternative route.										
										
Manual recalculation										
If a traffic announcement affects your route, a window with detailed informa- tion on the traffic announcement ap- pears.										
										
If, after displaying the traffic message, the navigation system detects that a sensible alternative route is possible, the following display appears.										
										
The display provides you with an overview of the alternative route calculated.										
										
The red route or route marked blue for an obstruction shows the previous route. The route marked yellow displays the alternative route calculated.										
In the right section of the display, you can see how much the route changes and how much time you will likely save if you use the alternative route.										
Now either press the  OK  button to use the alternative route or press the  Reject  button to continue using the existing route.										
										
The map display										
The map display is used primarily for route guidance. However, you can also use the map display without route guidance to show your current position and, for example, to receive  warnings about exceeding the speed limit.										
										
Calling up the map display										
The map display is called up automatically when you start route guidance.										
Without route guidance, you can call up the map display from the main menu.										
The map display will then appear and, if GPS reception is available, will show your current position.										
If route guidance is already active, the map will be displayed with route guidance.										
Structure of the map display										
"The structure depends on the settings made in  ""Map display options"" on   page 96  or in  ""The Map view button"" on   page 63  and whether route guidance is active or not."										
										
Map display without route guidance										
If the navigation is not active, almost the whole area of the touch screen will be taken up by the map.										
										
Speed limit on the road currently being driven on (display not available for all roads), signs for the driver alerts will also be displayed										
Zoom buttons										
Power	level/telephone	status (depending on the model)								
										
Button for calling up the options Vehicle position										
Current road										
Information box (if displayed) showing vehicle speed and altitude above sea level										
Map display with route guidance										
Power	level/telephone	status (depending on the model)								
										
Button for calling up the options Traffic lane recommendation (only appears on some multi-lane roads;										
green arrows = recommended lanes)										
										
Vehicle position										
Current street or street to which the next driving maneuver leads										
Your current position is displayed on the map via the position icon.										
										
The Information box										
During route guidance you can have information displayed in the Info box.										
										
14	6	1								
										
3	2									
										
7	13									
										
12										
11	5									
										
10	9	8	4							
										
1  Speed limit of the street currently being driven on (display is not available for all streets)										
										
Driver alerts (depending on the model)										
Zoom buttons										
Distance to the next driving maneuver Next driving maneuver										
Calls up volume settings Button for  SituationScan										
										
Button for Route overview (only with the selected route active. If TMC announcements are activated on the route, a traffic jam warning sign appears on the button.)										
Information box										
										
If you press the Info box again, more or less fields are displayed. At least one field and a maximum of three fields can be displayed. The information displayed depends on the settings that are selected in the  Navigation settings in the map view menu > Advanced > Info box data fields . The following can be selected:										
										
With selected route	: Remaining distance to destination, remaining travel time, arrival time at the destination, speed, speed limit, time and and height above sea level.									
										
Without selected route	: Speed, Speed limit, Time and Positionheight									
										
Information is also displayed in the bottom left corner in the preview area.										
										
The next manoeuvre is displayed as an arrow, with a distance indication underneath it. If two driving manoeuvres are to be performed in succession within a short time, another smaller arrow indicating the second driving manoeuvre is displayed above the first arrow.										
"You can adjust the volume of the navigation announcements by pressing the button with the speaker symbol in the preview area  (See ""Changing the   announcement volume"" on page 92)"										
.										
										
Split screen with route guidance										
Speed limit on the road currently be- ing driven on (display not available for all roads), signs for the driver alerts will also be displayed										
Driver alerts (depending on the model)										
Zoom buttons Vehicle position										
Power	level/telephone	status (depending on the model)								
										
Button for calling up the options Traffic lane recommendation (only appears on some multi-lane roads;										
green arrows = recommended lanes)										
										
8  Next driving maneuver										
										
9  Current street or street to which the next driving maneuver leads Distance	to	the	next	driving maneuver						
										
Bar display to illustrate the distance to the next driving maneuver										
Button for  SituationScan  Calls up volume settings Information box										
										
Button for Route overview (only with the selected route active. If TMC announcements are activated on the route, a traffic jam warning sign appears on the button.)										
Route guidance with arrow display										
Vehicle speed and altitude above sea level										
Information box										
Button for  SituationScan										
										
Power level/telephonestatus (de- pending on the model)										
Button for calling up the options Button for Route overview (only with the selected route active. If TMC										
announcements are activated on the route, a traffic jam warning sign appears on the button.)										
Driver alerts (depending on the model)										
Speed limit of the street currently being driven on (display is not available for all streets)										
Next driving maneuver										
Traffic lane recommendation (only appears on some multi-lane roads; green arrows = recommended lanes)										
										
11  Current street or street to which the next driving maneuver leads Distance	to	the	next	driving maneuver						
										
Calls up volume settings										
Lane Assistant Pro 3D (model dependent)										
You can display an animated realistic representation of the lane at many junc- tions. To do this, switch on the function  Lane Assistant Pro 3D  as described un- der 										
"""The Guidance info button"" on   page 67 . At selected complex junctions you will be shown exactly which lane you have to change to. You can leave the Lane Assistant Pro 3D again by touching the display."										
										
										
Map display with Junction view										
You can display a detailed and realistic view of the lane situation at many motorway junctions.										
"To do this, switch on the  Junction view  function as described under  ""The   Guidance info button"" on page 67 ."										
										
If you are then directed through a motor- way junction by the Navigation device, you will see a corresponding display.										
										
Follow the lanes indicated with the arrows.										
Tunnel view										
When your enter a longer tunnel, a three dimensional tunnel view appears. If there is no maneuvres performed in the next 1000m in the tunnel, the lane of the current road section is displayed. An overview of the tunnel is displayed in the bottom on the right. When you touch the display, the tunnel view disappears. If any maneuvres are performed in the tunnel, or if the next maneuvre is performed outside the tunnel, a tunnel view is displayed in full image mode with the coming maneuvre.										
										
Using the map display										
Repeating the last an nouncement										
										
During route guidance, the system announces important information, e.g. the next driving manoeuvre. The last announcement can be repeated with updated information.										
										
Press the speaker symbol in the preview area while route guidance is active.										
The last announcement is be repeated with updated information. The volume is also displayed. If the preview area is reduced and no speaker symbol is displayed, the announcement can be spoken again if you press the preview area.										
Changing the announcement volume										
The volume of announcements  can be adjusted.										
										
Press the speaker symbol in the preview area while route guidance is active. On the top edge of the image, the Mute button is displayed with a speaker symbol. A bar diagram and the 										
 and 										
 buttons are displayed on the right.										
										
The bar diagram represents the volume.										
Press 										
 or 										
 or pull your finger over the scroll strip to increase or decrease the volume.										
										
Press  Mute  in order to mute the announcements.										
										
An x now appears next to the speaker symbol . With pressing the 										
 button, you can make the volume control elements disappear.										
										
Press again the speaker symbol in the preview area to mute the voice again.										
The bar display disappears again automatically after a short while if no button is pressed.										
										
Map zooming										
The map can be zoom ed into in steps by using the zoom buttons.										
										
Press the 										
 button. The zoom buttons are displayed.										
										
										
										
Press zoom in 										
" to ""zoom in on the map"" and therefore to get closer to the details displayed."										
										
Press zoom out 										
" to ""zoom out from the map” and therefore to obtain a larger overview."										
										
Press the 										
 button to switch back to the set zoom step after a change.										
										
If you change the zoom step, a button with two red lenses 										
 are displayed.										
										
Press the 										
 button to restore the										
										
originally set zoom step.										
Moving the map										
You can move the map to any point.										
To do this, press the map briefly.										
										
Then press any point on the map and move it in the required direction.										
The map is then moved accordingly.										
"You can also select a point as a destina- tion as described under  ""Selecting a des-   tination from the map"" on page 57."										
										
Map orientation										
When a route is activated, the map view can be oriented in different ways.										
If you have selected a 2D view in the Navigation settings in the map view (see page 64), this pertains to the compass direction only.										
Press the 2D map view on the display a little longer.										
										
Apart from the pulsating point, a compass and two arrow buttons pointing to the left and right appear on the top edge of the screen.										
Press the and 										
 buttons to rotate the map towards the desired compass direction.										
										
You can orient the map for example in the direction of travel.										
If you have selected a 3D display for the map view, the vertical display angle can be adjusted, too.										
Press the 3D map view on the display a little longer.										
										
Apart from the pulsating point, a com- pass and two arrow buttons  and 										
 pointing to the left and right appear on the top edge of the screen, and on the left edge of the screen, two arrow buttons pointing up and down are displayed.										
										
Press the  button.										
										
The viewing angle will be lower and the horizon is moved back after a while into the image.										
Press the  button.										
										
The viewing angle will be steeper. If the angle is exactly 90°, you are viewing the map in the 2D view from the top.										
The Route overview										
										
With the Route overview, you can have Points of Interest (POIs) and, if the TMC on route option is activated in the  Navigation settings > Route overview 										
menu, TMC events displayed on the selected route.										
Press the   button.										
A list of POIs and traffic events are displayed. In the top edge of the screen, four single buttons are displayed for TMC announcements on the route and the three selected POI Categories are also displayed. Apart from the symbols, the										
number of TMC announcements and POIs are displayed.										
Press one or more buttons to display TMC events or POIs.										
A list of POIs and, if applicable, TMC events is displayed with the expected arrival time and distance from the current vehicle position.										
Press the desired Point of Interest or TMC event.										
Information such as the address and the telephone number of the POIs or the type of traffic obstruction are displayed. From this view, all actions already described in the chapter Points of Interest on page 52 can be accessed, such as displaying POIs on the map, inserting or storing stopovers on routes.										
										
The red line in the middle of the screen represents your route. If this line ends with two points, then the list continues and you can scroll through the complete list by moving your finger.										
										
At cross-border destinations, the border crossing is displayed with the appropri- ate national flag. If you select the petrol station button, a petrol station is dis- played before and after the border if available.										
SituationScan										
If this function is activated 										
 in the Navigation settings in the Route guidance menu, three assistants support the driver during the travel with useful information and help in case of unexpected traffic situations.										
										
The detour assistant										
This function reacts to the reduction of the speed. If there are no POIs such as resting places or filling stations in the vicinity, the assistant assumes that the driver is in a traffic jam. If the 										
 symbol is displayed in colour and begins to blink, the assistant suggests a detour.										
										
Press the 										
 symbol.										
										
A message is displayed with the										
"question ""You are probably standing in a traffic jam. Would you like to avoid the jam using a detour?"". Now you can have the suggested detours displayed and select or reject them."										
If the vehicle is not on a motorway, the detour assistant calculates possible alternative routes before the next crossing in case of strong stop-and-go traffic to get you there faster. If the assistant can calculate an alternative route before the vehicle passes the crossing, the 										
 symbol is blinking. The alternative routes can be displayed and selected similar to the identically named function described on page 84.										
										
The Park Assistant										
This assistant will be activated when you are near the destination or passed by the destination. In the case when the driver is										
looking for a parking place, the 										
 symbol is activated as soon as it is										
										
possible to park in the given point of interest. Up to eight parking possibilities may be displayed, where the route to there and the footpath from the parking										
										
lot to the destination are governing for the selection.										
Touch a parking possibility on the map to select it.										
You can then have the route leading there displayed and the route guidance started. You can have the device lead you to the destination in pedestrian mode at the arrival at the parking place.										
										
The departure assistant										
This assistant reacts when you leave the suggested route, and asks your intentions with a list of options. Depending on whether you are looking for a resting place or a parking place, or would like to avoid a visual traffic obstruction, a tunnel or a toll road, the assistant displays the appropriate POIs in the vicinity or calculates a detour that supports the driver in avoiding the given route section. If the assistant has										
calculated a detour, the 										
 symbol is activated and blinking.										
										
Map display options										
In the map display options, you can change the settings for route guidance, the map display and the route.										
										
On the map display, press the button on the bottom right.										
										
This opens the options menu for the map display.										
You can go to the next or previous page of the options by pressing the 										
 and 										
 buttons or by using the scroll wheel.										
										
The options menu is exited either by selecting a function or by pressing the 										
 button.										
										
Displaying the whole  route										
										
(Only available when route guidance is active.)										
You can have the whole route to the destination displayed on the map. Additionally, you can have a complete route description displayed. As a further option, you can display and, if needed, select the different routes that can be set in the Route options.										
Call up the options menu for the map display.										
										
Press the  Show route  button.										
										
The complete route is displayed.										
Move route (model-dependent)  Becker RouteMove allows you to move your route with a single movement of your finger, providing a rapid means of adjusting your current route guidance										
										
with just one hand. After you switch to the Show route screen, the 										
 icon is displayed on the left-hand side. It takes										
										
just a short time for the function to be- come available and the icon to change. As soon as this icon 										
 is displayed and you select it, the route displayed can be moved.										
										
Press and hold your finger down any- where on the route displayed on the screen and drag the route to where you want it to be. The device will immediately calculate the updated route.										
Original route										
										
New route										
										
The distance and journey time of the new route are displayed immediately under- neath.										
										
You can set the route options using the										
Options  button.										
										
By pressing the Play 										
 button, the whole route can be simulated. The control elements, that are displayed by touching the screen shortly, allow you to play the simulation in up to 16x speed, or to step from route section to route section. The simulation can be stopped by pressing the back 										
 button.										
										
Route descript ion										
										
When the whole route is displayed, press the  Sections  button.										
										
										
The first point of the route description is displayed on the map.										
You can scroll through the whole route description with the  Next 										
 and  Back 										
 buttons.										
										
You can also display a list version of the route description. For this press the  List view  button. The simulation is continued by pressing the  Resume 										
 button.										
										
Press the 										
 arrow keys on the right hand side of the screen to scroll through the list.										
										
If you press an entry in the route description, it is displayed on the map.										
Blocking route sections/roads										
You can block individual route sections/ roads. The Navigation device then calcu- lates a sensible diversion to avoid the blocked section.										
Use the 										
 and 										
 buttons in the route directions to select the section of the route to be blocked.										
										
Press the  Block  button.										
										
Select  Block for current route  to block the section of the route for the current route guidance session only.										
										
Select  Block permanently  to block the section of the route for future route guidance sessions too.										
										
Changing of the blocking times is descri- bed on  page 12 7.										
										
Selecting alternative routes										
You can have the different routes displayed by the navigation device.										
When the whole route is displayed, press the Alternative routes button. (This function can be selected in the										
										
Route overview, too.)										
After a short time, the map is displayed. Each route is calculated after each other and displayed on the map. On the right- hand side, you can see the coloured list of the singe routes, according to the kilometres to be travelled and the expected duration of the travel.										
You can select the desired route by pressing the buttons on the right.										
Change route options										
(Only available when route guidance is active.)										
You can change the route options  (route selection etc.) during route guidance.										
										
Call up the options menu for the map display.										
										
Press the  Route options  button.										
										
"Set the route options as described under  ""The Route options button"" on   page 68."										
										
After a modification, the route is recalculated.										
Canceling route guidance										
(Only available when route guidance is active.)										
You can cancel the active route guidance.										
Call up the options menu for the map display.										
										
Press the  Stop guidance  button.										
										
This cancels route guidance to all destinations.										
										
Entering/deleting a stopover										
(Only available when route guidance is active.)										
With this function, you can enter a stopove r, or you can delete an entered stopover.										
										
Call up the options menu for the map display.										
										
Press the  Add stopover  button.										
										
"You can now enter a stopover as described under  ""The New destination   menu"" on page 43  ( Enter address ,  Select Point of Interest ,  Personal destinations , "										
Contacts ,  Select on map  or  Enter geo- coordinates ). You also have the option of quickly selecting a destination using the  Select from last destinations  button.										
										
If you have entered the desired stopover, the route is recalculated.										
										
The stopover is indicated on the map by a red flag.										
										
Deleting a st opover										
										
Call up the options menu for the map display.										
										
Press the  Delete stopover  button.										
										
Press the  Yes  button. The stopover is deleted.										
										
Blocking route temporarily										
Using the  Block road ahead  option, you can block a stretch of road ahead temporarily. This determines a certain stretch of road that should not be used. The Navigation 										
device will now try to calculate a detour.										
										
Call up the options menu for the map display.										
										
Press the  Block the road ahead										
										
button.										
										
Select the length of block you want by pressing the arrow buttons.										
										
If route guidance is active, you can select a road length between 200 m and 50 km. As soon as you selected the stretch, a new route will be calculated. Furthermore, the distance and time difference are also displayed in the lower part of the display.										
Setting day/night display										
You can switch the Navigation device display from day to night and vice versa.										
Call up the options menu for the map display.										
										
Press the  Day/Night  button.										
										
The display changes from day to night and vice versa.										
Displaying current position (Where am I?)										
You can display your  current position, make an emergency call (depending on model), select a hospital or filling station and save this position. Furthermore, you can display information regarding the current GPS reception and the current country.										
										
Call up the options menu for the map display.										
										
Press the  Where Am  button.										
										
The current position is displayed. If possible, an address is displayed. If no address is available for the current position, the geographic coordinates are displayed.										
With the  Emergency call  button you can make an emergency call under the Eu- rope-wide standard emergency call										
										
number 112 (depending on model) if a mobile telephone is connected to your navigation system and has reception.										
Before dialling the emergency call number, you must confirm this once again.										
										
The  emergency  call number is dialled using the call button.										
										
An address or the GPS position will be displayed depending on availability.										
If possible, you can change between the views   using   the   buttons										
or										
										
. In addition, you have other telephone functions at										
"your disposal. Also see chapter  ""Tele-   phone calls"" on page 116 ."										
										
"With the Hospital button, you can change directly to the places of interest category Hospital in the current vicinity. Also see chapter  ""Points of interest"" on page 52."										
" With the Petrol Station button, you can change directly to the places of interest category Filling station in the current vi- cinity. Also see chapter  ""Points of inter-   est"" on page 52"										
.										
										
You can return to the map using the										
Resume  button.										
										
By pressing  Save  you can store your current position in the fast access list.										
										
By pressing the  Country info  button you can display country-specific information such as the maximum permitted speed for the country you are currently in. Click on the relevant icon to display additional information.										
										
By pressing  GPS info  you can view informat ion regarding the GPS reception.										
										
You can see how many satellites are being received, and whether the satellite reception is good enough for navigation. The current time and the geographic position are also displayed.										
										
Entering the destination										
(Only available when route guidance is not active.)										
You can enter a destination.										
Call up the options menu for the map display.										
Press the  Enter destination  button.										
										
"You can now enter a destination as described under  ""The New destination   menu"" on page 43  ( Home ,  Enter address ,  Select Point of Interest ,  Personal destinations"										
,  Contacts ,  Route planning ,  Select on map  or  Enter geo- coordinates ).										
										
Displaying/selecting different routes You can use the Na vigation device to display various routes.										
										
"With the entire route displayed, press the  Alternative  button. This function can also be selected in the options of the map display,  See ""Map display   options"" on page 96"										
.										
										
After a short time, the map is displayed. Each route is calculated after each other and displayed on the map.										
										
The area on the right-hand side shows the colour key for the individual routes, the mileage for each route and the estimated driving time.										
You can select the desired route by pressing the buttons on the right.										
Skipping a destination										
If a planned route with several destina- tions is active, you may delete the cur- rent destination of the route. Route guid- ance to the next destination is then started.										
This may be necessary if a destination was not driven to directly. The Navigation device otherwise tries to guide you to the current destination.										
Call up the options menu for the map display.										
										
Press the  Next destination  button. Route guidance to the next destination is started.										
										
Depending on the selected settings (see  page 71  onwards), a number of helpful supplementary functions are made available to you.										
										
Feedback after route calculation										
When calculating the route, the best pos- sible route is selected by taking the vehi- cle or loading specifications into consid- eration if possible. The route might vary considerably from the car route as re- gards distance, journey time or routing. If a destination cannot be reached with- out taking the predefined restrictions into consideration, this will be displayed after the route calculation.										
You can scroll through the list using the arrow key 										
 or scroll wheel on the right-hand side of the screen.										
										
Press the  Cancel  button or 										
 to re- turn to the last entry.										
										
Press the  Next  button to start the naviga- tion.										
										
The following is displayed for each re- striction:										
A graphic for the restriction										
The distance from the current posi- tion										
When you select a restriction, the corre- sponding section will be displayed on the map.										
										
Zooming in on the map										
You can gradually zoom in and out of the map using the Zoom buttons.										
Press Zoom in 										
" to ""zoom into the map"" and thus zoom in closer to the displayed details."										
										
Press Zoom out 										
" to ""zoom out from the map"" and thus get a greater over- view."										
										
Press the 										
 button to display the en- tire section of the route.										
										
Warnings with planned route										
When the driver warnings function is ac- tivated in the navigation settings, you will be warned about road sections where there are relevant restrictions.										
										
If there are road sections on your route that are subject to a restriction, your nav- igation system will warn you shortly be- fore reaching the road sections affected. The layout of the message is similar as										
										
"described in the chapter ""Feedback after route calculation""."										
You have the following options:										
Press the 										
 button to close the message.										
										
enlarge the display area if another restriction lies ahead of you.										
The message will close automatically once you have left the critical area. In ad- dition, the message closes automatically when you approach a new road section with a restriction.										
Warnings without planned route										
When the driver warnings function is ac- tivated in the navigation settings, you will be warned about road sections where there are relevant restrictions.										
"The function is similar as described in the chapter ""Warning with planned route""."										
Furthermore, the navigation system will display in which direction you can or can- not drive at intersections, provided that the information is available.										
										
Show route										
You can display the route on the screen once you have entered a destination. If a different route has been selected on the basis of a profile setting (vehicle dimen- sions, weight, dangerous goods), the section of road being avoided because of this is shown in blue.										
On the avoided (blue) route, the restric- tions are displayed with signs. Select a traffic sign on the map to display a de- tailed view of the section of road con- cerned.										
										
If there are further restrictions on your route, you can use the arrow keys 										
 to scroll through the list of re- strictions that are being avoided because of the vehicle settings you have made.										
										
										
Display height profile										
You can display a height profile from the Show route or Alternative routes view. To do this, select the 										
 button.										
										
Height profile for a route:										
										
You can use the 										
 and 										
 buttons to adjust the zoom level and move to the left or right to shift the height profile.										
										
If you select a point by touching the pro- file, the corresponding height and dis- tance from the starting point are dis- played for it.										
Press the 										
 button to go back to the route view.										
										
Height profile for alternative routes:										
										
Yet more functions are available for al- ternative routes. Press the  Next 										
 and  Previous 										
 buttons to highlight the in- dividual height profiles. The height pro- files and their associated alternative routes on the right-hand side of the screen are displayed in the same colour. Once you have decided on a route, use the buttons on the right to select it.										
										
If your navigation device has an integrated Bluetooth® wireless technology interface, you can connect it to a mobile phone equipped with Bluetooth® wireless technology.										
Your Navigation device can then be used as a very comfortable hands-free unit.										
Calling up the telephone mode (only selected models)										
You can call the telephone mode from the main menu.										
To call the telephone mode, press the										
Phone  button in the main menu.										
										
If Bluetooth® wireless technology is activated and the Navigation device is already connected to a cell phone, the telephone menu is displayed.										
										
If Bluetooth® wireless technology is not activated upon calling up the telephone function, the system will prompt you to switch Bluetooth® wireless technology on.										
										
Press the  Yes  button to activate Bluetooth® wireless technology.										
										
The Navigation device now attempts to reconnect the cell phone last connected. When the connection is established, the telephone menu is displayed after a short period.										
If no cell phone has been connected yet or if the device last connected is not available, the following display is generated.										
										
"Press the  Yes  button to find Bluetooth® cell phones as described in  ""Searching for cell phones"" on page   114 ."										
										
Telephone menu (only selected models)										
From  the telephone menu, you have the option:										
										
Numbers to be dialled or selected from the phonebook,										
to display the telephone book										
to call up the call list,										
To search for Bluetooth® telephones										
To disconnect the connection to a cell phone.										
										
If Bluetooth® is activated and the Navigation device is already connected to a cell phone, the telephone menu is displayed after the telephone function is called up.										
										
In the upper area of the telephone menu, the signal strength of the cell phone, the charging level of the cell phone, the tele- phone name and the network provider are displayed, if available.										
										
Dialing a number										
You can enter a telephone number and start a call to this number  or select a number from the phonebook.										
										
In the telephone menu, press the  Dial										
										
button.										
										
Use the buttons displayed to enter the phone number you want.										
										
Press the  Dial  button.										
										
"The Navigation device then attempts to establish a connection to the phone number entered. You can find out how to continue operation in  ""Telephone calls""   on page 116."										
										
Phonebook										
In the phonebook, the system displays the phonebook entries loaded from the SIM card and from the memory of the cell phone. After selecting the desired entry,  you can call the respective phone number.										
										
In the telephone menu, press the  Dial										
										
button.										
										
Press the  Phone book  button.										
										
If there are more than 10 entries in the phonebook, an input menu is displayed. If there are less than 10 entries, a list with the entries will be displayed directly.										
In the input menu, select the first letters of the entry you are looking for.										
										
Press the	button when the name you want is displayed in the upper line. As soon as just 5 or fewer hits are available, a list is displayed from which									
										
you can select the correct entry.										
Select the desired entry in the list.										
										
If there is more than one phone number available for the entry selected, you may then select the respective number.										
										
The different numbers are indicated by icons.										
										
Select the desired phone number.										
"The Navigation device then attempts to establish a connection to the phone number selected. You can find out how to continue operation in  ""Telephone calls""   on page 11"										
6.										
										
Call  list										
										
In the call list, the last dialled, answered or unanswered numbers or names are displayed in chronological order. If possible, the numbers or names of the list stored in the cell  phone are also displayed in different lists.										
										
In the telephone menu, press the  Last calls  button.										
										
Using the buttons  Missed ,  Received  and  Dialled , you may retrieve the lists loaded  from the cell phone.										
										
The call list of the dialled, answered or unanswered numbers or names on the Navigation device is displayed in the rows below.										
Each row of the call list is divided into fields. Each list field is designed as a button. On the right button, the number/ name is displayed and the features of the entry are displayed with the left icon.										
Icons  used										
										
The following icons are used in the call list.										
										
Icon	Meaning									
	"This entry is a standard entry
without any special features."									
										
Scrolling through the call list										
Using the 										
 buttons, you can scroll through the call list in the corre- sponding direction of the arrow.										
										
Dialing an available number										
You can dial  the numbers/names in the call list directly.										
										
To initiate the call, press the button with the entry you want.										
The call will be initiated.										
										
Displaying or editing entries										
Each entry contained in the call list can be displayed or edited.										
Press the button field on the left next to the entry you want.										
A selection menu appears.										
										
Lists loaded from cell phone In the call list, call up the corresponding list using the  Missed ,  Received  and  Dialled  buttons .										
										
Using the 										
 buttons, you can scroll through the list in the corresponding direction of the arrow.										
										
To initiate a call, press the button with the entry you want.										
										
Connecting Bluetooth® telephones										
So that you may make and receive calls with your Navigation device, a cell phone that is equipped with Bluetooth® wire- less technology must be connected to the Navigation device. The following de- scribes the vari ous options for establish- ing a connection.										
										
Calling up a device list										
In	the	main	menu,	press	the					
										
Telephone  button.										
										
The device list is displayed.										
From the device list, you may search for or connect cell phones.										
The device list shows line by line all cell phones that were already connected to the Navigation device. Each line of the device list is divided into two fields. Each list field is designed as a button. On the right button, the device is named and its features are displayed with the left icon.										
										
Icon	Meaning									
	"This device is a standard
device without any special features."									
	"This device is the cell phone
currently connected."									
										
You can call up a menu by pressing the icon.										
										
Automatic connection										
After activation, your Navigation device attempts to establish a  connection to the cell phone last connected.										
										
"You can switch this function on or off as described in  ""Automatic connection"" on   page 119 ."										
										
Prerequisites for a successful connec- tion are:										
"On your Navigation device, Bluetooth® wireless technology is switched on. (S ee ""Bluetooth®"" on page 119 .)"										
										
The cell phone is switched on, is within range, and Bluetooth® wireless technology is activated.										
Searching for cell phones										
										
Call up the device list.										
										
Press the  Search Bluetooth® phones										
										
button.										
The search starts.										
During the search, any devices found are displayed and you may cancel the search by pressing the  Stop search  button.										
										
After the search or after you press the  Stop search , a list of the devices found is displayed.										
										
Then select the name of the cell phone to be connected.										
The Navigation device will then attempt to establish the connection. On the cell phone, the password prompt should then occur. This password is fixed by Navigation device.										
										
Enter the password displayed on the cell phone.										
The connection will be established. With a successful connection, the telephone menu will be displayed.										
										
Connect new devices										
You can initiate a connection to another mobile phone using the  Devices  button located in the telephone menu at the lower right hand corner of your screen. If a cell phone is already connected, that connection is automatically disconnect- ed and the new device is connected.										
										
Click on  Devices										
										
Select the cell phone you want in the list.										
The connection is established to the cell phone selected. With a successful con- nection, the telephone menu will be dis- played.										
Connecting a mobile phone										
You can also attempt to establish a connection to the Navigation device from the mobile phone.										
If a request is received from a mobile phone that has not yet been connected, you will be asked whether you wish to allow the connection.										
Press the  Yes  button to permit the connection.										
										
Enter the displayed password (four zeros) on the mobile phone.										
The connection will be established. With a successful connection, the telephone menu will be displayed.										
Disconnecting a connected telephone  You may disconnect the connection to a cell phone currently connected via Bluetooth® wireless technology.										
										
Press the  Disconnect  button.										
										
The connection to the cell phone current- ly connected is disconnected.										
										
Telephone calls										
In the telephone calls section, you can find a summary of the control options that are available for establishing a call, accepting a call, and ending a call.										
										
Establishing a call										
Enter the telephone number or select an entry from the call list or telephone book.										
If the call is accepted by the party called, the display changes and you are con- nected to the other party.										
Accepting a call										
For an incoming call, a ringing tone  will sound. Also the following is displayed.										
										
If available, the phone number and name of the caller are displayed.										
For incoming calls, you have several operating options:										
"If you have switched on the automatic call acceptance as described in  ""Automatic call acceptance"" on page 119 , the time to call acceptance is also displayed for the "										
Accept  button.										
										
										
	Ending a call									
You can end an active  call.										
										
In the call screen, press the  End call										
										
button.										
The call is ended. The screen last active is displayed.										
During a call										
During a call, you have various control options.										
										
In the call display, the signal strength of the cell phone, the charging level of the cell phone, the telephone name and the network provider are displayed if availa- ble in the upper area.										
Beneath, the call time and, if available, the phone number or name the name of the other party are displayed.										
If route guidance is active, then you will receive the navigation instructions with arrows on the call screen.										
To call the options menu of the call screen, press the  Options  button.										
										
Volume										
"By pressing the  Volume , you can call the volume adjustment.  See   ""Telephone volume"" on page 119."										
										
Microphone off / Microphone on										
										
For a private conversation in a vehicle, you can switch off the microphone of the Navigation device. The other party on the phone will not hear anything. Press the  Microphone off  button to switch off the microphone. Press the  Microphone on  butt on to switch the microphone back on.										
										
Private mode / Hands free										
										
You can transfer a call back to the cell phone. The hands-free function is then ended.										
After the call is ended, the connection to the cell phone is automatically re- established.										
Press the  Private mode  button. The hands-free function is ended.										
										
Press the  Hands free  button to make and receive calls again via the Navigation device prior to ending the call.										
										
Telephone settings										
The telephone settings include all the settings relevant for the telephone mode.										
In the  main menu, press the 										
 button.										
										
Press the  Phone settings  button.										
										
You will branch to the menu for the telephone settings.										
Start										
In the menu, various pages with the functions are available:										
										
You can access the next or previous page of the settings by pressing the 										
 and										
										
buttons.										
										
Bluetooth®										
With the  Bluetooth ®  button, you can switch Bluetooth® on or off.										
										
Automatic connection										
With the  Auto-connect  button, you can switch on or off whether an automatic connection to a cell phone is atte mpted after switching on the Navigation device.										
										
In the settings menu, press the  Auto- connect  button.										
										
Depending on the previous setting, you can switch the function on or off.										
Top icon: function on										
Bottom icon: function off										
Automatic call acceptance										
With this function, you can set whether or not or after which time a n incoming call is accepted automatically.										
										
In the settings menu, press the										
Answer call automatically  button.										
										
Select whether incoming calls will be accepted automatically after 3, 5 or										
10 seconds.										
If you select  Off , the function is switched off.										
										
Telephone volume										
With this function, you can set the volume  of the ringtone and the volume of the call.										
										
In the settings menu, press the										
Volume  button.										
										
Select the desired volume with the 										
 and 										
 buttons.										
										
Press the  Mute 										
 button to mute the volume. By pressing the 										
 button										
										
again, the telephone volume is switched back on.										
Confirm your settings by pressing the back button 										
.										
										
Updating the phonebook										
With this function, you can update or retransfer the stored  phonebook entries in the Navigation device.										
										
In the settings menu, press the										
Refresh  button.										
										
Be aware that it may take several minutes to load the phonebook.										
Bluetooth® name										
With this function, you can assign a name for your Navigation device. This assigned name will then be displayed by other Bluetooth® devices.										
										
In the settings menu, press the										
Bluetooth® name  button.										
										
Enter the desired name.										
Confirm the name entered by pressing the  OK  button.										
										
Under Tools, the following functions are grouped together, depending on the model:										
Marco Polo City Guides										
Image viewer										
Country information										
Overview of functions										
Blocking a section of the road										
Trip computer										
The Tools menu is called up from the main menu.										
In the main menu, press  Extras .										
										
										
This displays the extras menu.										
Select the desired function by pressing one of the buttons.										
Travel Guide (model dependent)										
"With the travel guide, you can select, for example, MARCO POLO Top- Highlights or MARCO POLO Insider Tips and start the guide destination there.  See ""Travel Guide (model"										
"  dependent)"" on page 56."										
										
Rear View camera										
										
Displaying Rear view camera (depending on the model)										
When a reversing camera is connec- ted to your navigation system, and the reversing camera setting is set to  Ma- nual  (see  “Rear view camera (depen-   ding on the model)” auf Seite 134										
) you can display the image of the reversing camera on your navigation system via the button  Show rear view camera .										
										
Press the 										
 button and then re- turn to the screen last viewed. De- pending on the model, the 										
 button will be on the map.										
										
Image viewer*										
The Image Viewer can display pictures saved on an inserted micro SD memory  card or on the internal memory.										
										
The jpg and bmp image formats are supported.										
										
Press the  Pictures  button.										
										
										
A message is displayed stating that the image viewer must not be used when driving. Please observe this warning.										
										
Confirm the message by pressing the										
OK  button.										
										
The image viewer menu appears.										
The image viewer menu										
In the image viewer menu, you can select images, start a slide show and call up the settings.										
Folder containing images Thumbnails of the images in the current folder										
View the previous page of images/ folders										
Go up one level in the directory hierarchy										
View the next page of images/ folders										
Selecting an image										
										
In the image viewer menu, select the desired folder, and then the desired image.										
You can use the 										
 and 										
 buttons to scroll through the pages of images and folders.										
										
The selected image is displayed along with an image menu.										
										
You can use the menu buttons to rotate or enlarge the image or to display information.										
										
Press the buttons to the left and right of the image to move to the next or previous image.										
Press the centre of the image to hide the image menu.										
										
Press the right- or left-hand side of the screen to move to the next or previous image.										
Press the centre of the image to show the image menu again.										
Enlarging the image										
Show the image menu.										
Press the  Zoom  button.										
										
Move the control on the top of the screen to the desired level of magnifi- cation.										
The image can then be moved around. Press the centre of the image to cancel the enlargement.										
										
Rotating the picture										
Show the image menu.										
Press the  Rotate  button until the image is in the desired orientation.										
										
Press the centre of the image to hide the image menu again.										
Displaying image information										
Show the image menu.										
Press the  EXIF  button.										
										
Information on the current image is displayed.										
Press the 										
 button to close the information.										
										
Slide show										
In the slide show, all the pictures in the current folder level  are automatically displayed sequentially.										
										
Press  Slide show  in the image viewer menu.										
										
The image display changes to full screen display and initiates the slide show according to the settings made, with the first image in the current folder level.										
The slide show will end once all images have been displayed.										
Press the 										
 button to stop the show before the end.										
										
Settings										
In the settings, you can choose the speed at which the images are displayed, whether certain effects are used when a new image is shown, and whether the images should be loaded at a higher quality.										
Press  Slide show settings  in the image viewer menu.										
										
You can use  Interval time  to set the display duration.										
										
In  Effects  you can choose the transition effects for the images.										
										
In  Load pictures in high quality (slower)  you can choose whether images should be loaded at high resolution (										
) or not (										
).										
										
Loading the images at high resolution										
makes the display slower.										
Confirm your settings by pressing the back button 										
.										
										
Where am I?										
"See ""Displaying current position   (Where am I?)"" on page 101."										
										
Traffic forecast (depending on model)  With the traffic forecast, you can observe the expected flow of traffic.										
										
The data is based on historical traffic data collected over a longer period of time.										
You can determine the expected flow of traffic by the colour of the road. Green signifies a clear road, red signifies con- gestion. All possible colours are dis- played on the right-hand side of the screen.										
If you now change the time of day, you will see how the expected flow of traffic changes.										
Press the  Traffic forecast  button										
										
With the and buttons you can change the weekday										
										
With the and buttons you can change the time in hourly increments										
										
With the 										
 and 										
 buttons you can change the section of the map.										
										
With the 										
 button you can display the complete route on the screen if available.										
										
You can select another section of the map by dragging.										
Country information										
The country information enables you to display country-specific information for numerous countries  (maximum permit- ted speed, alcohol limits, etc.).										
										
Press the  Country information  button.										
										
The list of countries is displayed.										
Press the button for the desired country.										
										
The country-specific information is displayed (maximum permitted speed, alcohol limits, etc.). Click on these symbols to display additional information.										
Below you will find a description of the symbols used:										
										
Symbol	Meaning									
	Speed limit in built-up areas									
	"Speed limit outside built-up
areas"									
	Speed limit on motorways									
	Speed limit on main roads									
	Alcohol limit									
	"Reflective jacket
requirement"									
	"Driving lights requirement
during daytime"									
	Tow rope must be carried									
	Spare bulbs must be carried									
	"Fire extinguisher must be
carried"									
	"Winter tyres must be fitted in
winter"									
	"Snow chains must be fitted
in winter"									
										
Press the  OK  button or the 										
 button to exit the menu.										
										
Blocking a  section of the road permanently										
										
With the Block option you can block indi- vidual route sections permanently. The Navigation device then calcu-lates a di- version to avoid a traffic obstruction. Furthermore, existing blockages can be removed 										
 (with the Delete block- age button) or be displayed on a map										
										
.										
										
Press the Block button.										
A map of the vicinity near your location is displayed.										
										
Define the start and end point of the section to be blocked by touching the map.										
The points will be marked by the letters A and B.										
Define the direction of blockage for the road section (from A to B or from B to A).										
										
Additionally, you can display a list of permanent blockages already defined on the map.										
										
Select the desired blocked road by pressing, in order to set the blockage times.										
										
The road is currently blocked for all days of the week, for the whole day 										
. You can now set whether or not the road should be blocked for each day of the week.										
										
Press the buttons with the days on which the road should not be blocked 										
.										
										
Press the clock symbol under one of the days and limit the block of this day to the required time of the day.										
You can set up to two times when the road shall be blocked.										
Using the buttons set the first peri- od when the road is to be blocked on this day.										
Using the buttons set the second period when the road is to be blocked  on this day if necessary.										
										
Press the  Block 24 h  button to set a block for an entire day. Press the  Use setting for...  button to also use the block on other days.										
										
Press again the 										
 back button to confirm the settings and to exit the menu.										
										
Trip computer (depending on model)										
The Trip computer provides a data display with average speeds, maximum speeds, etc. and a  stopwatch with the option to record laps.										
										
In the main menu, press  Extras .										
										
Press the  Trip computer  button.										
										
The data display appears.										
The data display contains the following information:										
Current speed (as a number and in the form of a bar graph)										
Maximum speed										
Average speed without breaks in the journey										
Average speed with breaks in the journey										
Total distance										
										
Travel time without breaks in the journey										
Travel time with breaks in the journey										
Compass										
Calls up the stopwatch with lap recording										
										
Press the  Reset  button to reset the values to zero.										
										
To display the stopwatch  with the lap recording, press the button	.									
										
Press the  Start  button to start the recording.										
										
Press the  Lap  button to stop the current recording and start a new lap recording.										
										
You can record up to 300 laps in the same way.										
Press the  Stop  button to stop the recording. The time continues if you press the  Start  button again after stopping the recording.										
										
Press the  Reset  button to delete all recordings and reset all times to zero.										
										
You can display the individual laps in list form using the  List view  button.										
										
Press the  Delete list  button to delete the recorded laps.										
										
Selecting system settings										
You can change various basic settings for all applications on the Navigation device.										
In the main menu, press the 										
 button.										
										
Press the  System settings  button. The system settings menu is displaye d.										
										
The system settings menu										
You can select the various settings optionsfrom the system settings menu.										
										
Operation										
Selection options										
"Select the desired menu item by press- ing the appropriate button. The function- ality of the buttons varies depending on the selection and is described under  ""The  "										
"individual menu items"" on page130 ."										
										
You can go to the next or previous page of the settings by pressing the 										
 and 										
 buttons.										
										
Closing the settings menu										
Press 										
 to close the settings menu.										
										
										
The individual menu items										
Battery										
Your Navigation device may be operated using an external power supply unit or an integrated rechargeable battery.										
										
The energy supply and status are shown on a display.										
										
Displaying the power supply										
You can call up the status display using the following button:										
										
Press the  Battery  button.										
										
The status display appears and shows the power supply.										
										
The power level is shown in the charge display. In the example, the battery still has around two-thirds charge.										
The charging operation is indicated by the mains socket symbol in the status display.										
										
Closing the status display										
Pressing the  OK  button closes the status display and shows the settings menu.										
										
Automatic on/off										
The Navigation device can switch automatically to sleep mode when the vehicle ignition is switched off.										
Prerequisite for this:										
The Navigation device must be connected to the vehicle cigarette lighter  (see also page 21).										
										
The cigarette lighter is de-energized after the ignition is switched off.										
The relevant function can be switched on at the Navigation device.										
										
Switching the function on/off										
Press the  Automatic on/off  button. Depending on the previous setting, you can switch the function on or off. The current setting is shown by the icon.										
										
Top icon: The function is switched on, the Navigation device switches off automatically.										
										
Bottom icon: The function is switched off, the Navigation device does not switch off automatically.										
The following display is shown during automatic switch-off.										
										
You can cancel the automatic switch-off procedure by pressing the  Cancel  button.										
										
Day/night display										
You can set the Navigation device display to day, night or automatic.										
The automatic setting changes automat- ically between day and night display de- pending on the time, the current position and the time of year.										
With the following button, you can call up the setting:										
										
Press the  Day/Night  button.										
										
Select from  Automatic ,  Day  and  Night . The desired function is activated and the system settings are displayed.										
										
Brightness										
You can set the brightness of the display separately for day and night display.										
With the following button, you can call up the setting:										
										
Press the  Brightness  button.										
										
Use the 										
 and 										
 buttons to set the desired brightness for the day and night display.										
										
Confirm your settings by pressing the back button 										
.										
										
Design by day										
With this option, the menu and map display during the day can be switched to the colours and contrast of night display.										
										
Press the Design by day button.										
										
Select the Dark design option for a dark display during the day.										
Select the Normal design option for a normal display during the day.										
										
Confirm your selection by pressing the back button 										
.										
										
Design by night										
Two schemes with different contrasts are available to select for the map display at night.										
Press the Design by night button.										
										
Select the option on the bottom to set a lighter night display for the map view.										
										
Select the option on the top to reset the darker, standard preset night display for the map view.										
										
Confirm your selection by pressing the back button 										
. The new night display will take effect when activating the night mode.										
										
Setting the colour										
You can change the colour of the icons and other design elements.										
										
Press the  Colour schemes  button.										
										
Select one of the eight predefined colours.										
or										
Select the required colour using the slider	at the bottom of the display.									
										
Confirm your settings by pressing the back button 										
.										
										
Language										
The texts on the touch screen can be displayed in a variety of languages.										
										
Opening language selection										
You can choose between the various languages using the following button:										
										
Press the  Language  button. The language selection appears.										
										
The language selection shows the available languages in a list several pages long. Each list field is in the form of a button. Each button is labelled with the language name and the associated national flag.										
Scrolling										
Using the 										
 buttons or the scroll wheel, it is possible to scroll through the list in the direction of the relevant arrow.										
										
Selecting the language										
Press the button for the required language.										
The selection is confirmed by pressing the back 										
 button.										
										
The selection list for the voice is displayed.										
Using the 										
 buttons or the scroll wheel, scroll through the selec- tion list.										
										
Select a voice by touching the button.										
Press the Back 										
 button.										
										
A prompt appears indicating that the software has been re-started, and you are asked whether you really want to change the language.										
Confirm the prompt using  OK .										
										
Cancelling the language selection Pressing the  Cancel  button cancels the language selection and shows the settings menu.										
										
										
Keyboard layout										
										
You can switch the sequence of the keyboard layout by selecting the corresponding key.										
										
Sounds										
You can switch the Navigation device signal tone on and off. This also includes the clicking of the touch screen buttons.										
Press the  Tones  button.										
										
Depending on the previous setting, the signal tones are switched on or off.										
Top icon: Tones switched on										
Bottom icon: Tones switched off										
										
Rear view camera (depending on the model)										
"Once you have connected your navigati- on system to a rear view camera using a suitable cable, (see  ""Cable for rear view   camera (depending on the model, optio-   nal)"" on page23"										
) you can display the image of the rear view camera on your navigation system.										
										
Press the button rear view camera										
										
You can choose from the following options:										
										
Selection	Meaning									
Automatic	"The navigation system swit-
ches over to the image of the reversing camera as soon as an image signal is sent. Nor- mally, this is always the case once the reverse gear has been engaged"									
										
Screen animations										
You can switch the animated screen changes on and off.										
Press the animations key										
Depending on the previous setting, you will either switch the animated screen changes on or off.										
										
Top icon: animations switched on										
Bottom icon: animations switched off										
										
Driver profiles (depending on model)										
You can select 4 different driver profiles.										
										
You select the corresponding profile by pressing the  Profile 1 – Profile 4  button. You must then restart the navigation system.										
										
You restart the system by pressing on the  Yes  button.										
										
The driver profiles can now be named in- dividually. This function can be useful, for example, if several drivers use the same navigation system.										
Many settings and regular destinations are stored in the driver profiles.										
The following .. are stored in the driver profiles:										
Home address										
Last destinations										
Planned routes										
Blocked roads										
Last calls										
Data in the journey computer										
Last GPS position										
Navigation settings										
Phone settings										
System settings										
Renaming driver profile										
										
You can rename the selected profile by pressing the  Name entry  button.										
										
Deleting driver profile										
										
You can delete the saved profile data by pressing the  Delete profile  button. The profile itself will still remain. If the profile was renamed previously, it will then be renamed to the original name again (Profile 1 – Profile 4).										
										
Driver profile Pro (model dependent)  Besides the functions described in the previous chapter, a Bluetooth® tele- phone can be used for automatically changing the profile on devices with Driver Profile Pro. Whenever the naviga- tion device is switched on and the last connected phone is not found, your navi- gation device checks whether another telephone is within reach that was se- lected as a trigger for changing the pro- file.										
										
Press the Set Auto-connect button. A list of possible telephones is displayed that you can use as a trigger for this profile, select the corresponding telephone by pressing the appropriate button.										
										
										
Service information										
The following button displays information regarding the Navigation device.										
										
Press the  Information  button.										
										
The information display appears with the software version number.										
										
By pressing the  Service information  but- ton, you can display further information such as used licences, installed contents and map material. Always quote these details in enquiries to the service provid- ed by United Navigation GmbH.										
										
Factory settings										
You can reset your Navigation device to the factory settings.										
The following updated data is deleted: saved destinations, saved routes, the home address, telephone data, images, videos etc. saved on the internal memory.										
										
Press the  Factory reset  button.										
										
Press the  Yes  button.										
										
The Navigation device is reset to the factory settings.										
Calibration (model dependent)										
If the touch screen responds incorrectly when buttons are pressed, it needs to be calibrated.										
										
Starting the calibration										
You can start the calibration using the following button:										
										
Press the  Calibration  button.										
										
The calibration procedure will be started. You will be guided through the procedure by means of text instructions.										
										
You can establish a data connection to a WiFi network (a telephone, for example) from your navigation system. This func- tion requires that there is a mobile de- vice in range which can be used as a WiFi hotspot.										
Please refer to the operating instructions for your smartphone to see if/how you can use your smartphone as a mobile hotspot.										
Press the WiFi settings button in the Set- tings menu.										
										
Press the 										
 button to activate and deactivate the WiFi function.										
										
Press the 										
 button to display the list of available networks. Select the net- work you wish to access from the list. Networks belonging to other people which you cannot access without a cor- responding password might also appear in the list.										
										
If you are connecting to a network for the first time, you must enter a password for this device. Enter the correct password for your WiFi hotspot here.										
If you have previously connected to a										
network, you can select it from this list without having to enter a password again.										
If you have previously connected with a WiFi hotspot, the system will automati- cally try to re-establish the connection the next time you activate WiFi.										
										
If you select the 										
 button in this menu, you can establish or disconnect a connection, delete this network from the list or delete all networks displayed from the list.										
										
The 										
 button is used to modify or dis- play specific settings.										
										
You can view the encryption, authentica- tion and name of the WiFi network, for example, or enter the password for your WiFi hotspot.										
										
GMT										
(Greenwich Mean Time)										
Central European Time standard Standard time at 0 degree longitude (the longitude intersecting Greenwich, Great Britain). This time is used worldwide for synchronization of data collection.										
										
Bluetooth® wireless technology Technology for wireless data tr ansmis- sion at short range up to 10 metres.										
										
GPS										
(Global Positioning System)										
GPS determines your actual geographi- cal position by the use of satellites. It is based on a total of 24 satellites which or- bit the Earth and transmit signals. The GPS receiver receives these signals and calculates the distance to each satellite from the running time differences and thus evaluates its actual current position in terms of geographical length and width. In order to determine the position, signals from at least three satellites are required, and the fourth one allows the height to be determined.										
JPG/JP EG										
										
(Joint Photographic Experts Group)										
The JPEG is the most common type of storage format for dissipating picture compression, i.e. when compressing, details of the picture are lost. Still pro- vides good picture quality despite com- pression, compression stages are se- lectable. It is the most common format for representation and exchange of pic- tures on the internet.										
										
SD card										
(Secure Digital)										
The Secure Digital Card was developed in 2001 by SanDisk on the basis of the older MMC standard. An SD card is a re- writable change-over storage card.										
										
Styl us										
										
A stylus is an input pointer which is used for the operation of touch-screens, mo- bile phones or PDAs.										
The stylus consists basically of a plastic pointer with a softer plastic core. The sleeve is hard and can be gripped and the softer core emerges at the tip and is de- signed to touch the screen as softly as possible (i.e. without the danger of scratching the screen).										
The stylus is more accurate than opera- tion using the fingers, since only the thin tip touches the screen. In addition, dirty marks on the screen caused by finger- prints are avoided.										
TMC										
(Traffic Message Channel)										
Traffic announcements transmitted by most FM stations via RDS. Basis for dynamic navigation.										
										
USB										
(Universal Serial Bus)										
The Universal Serial Bus (USB) is a bus sytem for interconnection of a computer with external USB peripherals for the exchange of data.										
										
Numerics										
3D display	63									
										
A										
Adjusting the map view	63									
										
Announce streets	76									
										
Automatic call acceptance	119									
										
Automatic connection	114 ,  119									
										
B										
Block	100									
										
Blocked roads	80									
										
Blocking a section of the road	100									
										
Blocking a section of the road permanently	126									
										
Bluetooth® wireless technology	113 ,									
										
139										
Switching on/off	119									
										
C										
Call										
Accept	116									
										
End	116 ,  117									
										
Ignore	116									
										
Reject	116									
										
Call list	111									
										
scrolling	111									
										
selecting number	112									
										
Call lists	111									
										
Connecting a telephone	113									
										
Content Manager	33									
										
telepítése	34									
										
Coordinate entry	58									
										
Country information	68 ,  125									
										
Current position	101									
										
D										
Destination from map	57									
										
Destination input menu										
Start	44									
										
Destination list	39									
										
Destination memory										
changing	40 ,  111									
										
Scroll	40									
										
Destinations										
Entering	44									
										
Protected	40									
										
Standard	40 ,  113									
										
Storing	48									
										
Dial	108									
										
Dialing a number	108									
										
Display position	57									
										
Display street names	64									
										
Displaying information signs	78									
										
Displaying the route	48 ,  97									
										
Driver warnings	78									
										
E										
Easy route	73									
										
Economical route	73									
										
Eco-route	73									
										
Entering address by speech	50									
										
Entering an address	45									
										
Entering the town	46									
										
F										
Factory settings	83									
										
Fast access	40									
										
Icons	40									
										
Fast route	73									
										
Ferries	74									
										
G										
Geo coordinates	58									
										
GMT	139									
										
Google™ points of interest	41									
										
GPS	139									
										
GPS reception	102									
										
H										
Hazardous materials class	72									
										
Home address	38									
										
House number	48									
										
I										
ID3 tag	139									
										
Image viewer	121									
										
Intended purpose	7									
										
Intersection	47									
										
J										
JPG/JPEG	139									
										
L										
Lap recording	128									
										
Last announcement	92									
										
Lists										
List of towns	46									
										
Street list	47									
										
telephone numbers	111									
										
M										
Map										
showing	87									
										
Zoom in	57 ,  93 ,  104									
										
Zoom out	57 ,  93 ,  104									
										
Map display	87									
										
Map orientation	64									
										
Memory card	23									
										
Micro SD Card	23									
										
Microphone on/off	117									
										
Motorways	74									
										
N										
Navigation	37									
										
starting	48									
										
terminating	29 ,  99									
										
Number list										
Dialing a number	112									
										
Number lists	111									
										
P										
Phonebook	108 ,  109									
										
Update	120									
										
Photo	121									
										
Point of Interest on the route	55									
										
Points of interest										
Call	56									
										
entering directly	55									
										
in the vicinity	53									
										
near the destination	55									
										
near to an address	54									
										
Q										
Quick access										
Icons	111									
										
R										
Restrictions										
Ferries	74									
										
Motorways	74									
										
Toll roads	74									
										
Route calculator	127									
										
Route description	97									
										
Route guidance										
starting	48									
										
terminating	29 ,  99									
										
Route options	68 ,  99									
										
Route planning	44 ,  58									
										
Route types	103									
										
S										
Safety instructions	7 ,  37									
										
Satellites	102									
										
SD card	23									
										
Searching for a telephone	114									
										
Selecting a country	45									
										
Selecting a town	46									
										
Selecting destination										
Entering an address	45									
										
Selecting the street	47									
										
Setting the volume	92 ,  119									
										
Settings										
Navigation	62									
										
System	129									
										
Telephone	118									
										
Short route	73									
										
Slide show	124									
										
Speed limit	79									
										
Stopover	100									
										
Deleting	100									
										
Stylus	140									
										
Switching on the navigation device	27									
										
System settings	129									
										
T										
Telephone menu	108									
										
The main menu	29									
										
Time of day format	82									
										
Time zone	82									
										
TMC	74 ,  83									
										
Displaying TMC messages on the map	84									
										
Route recalculation	86									
										
TMC antenna	22									
										
Toll roads	74									
										
Traffic information	68 ,  125									
										
Truck profile	71									
										
U										
Units	82									
										
USB	140									
										
V										
Vehicle profile										
selecting	69 ,  70									
										
setting	70									
										
Voice	76									
										
Voice commands	50									
										
W										
Warnings										
Speed limit	79									
										
										
": standard
- : not available
: optional"	Navigation system									
	active.5 CE LMU BE B00	active.5 LMU BE B00	transit.5 LMU BE B02	active.5 LMU plus BE B10	active.6 CE LMU BE B30	active.6 LMU plus BE B40	"professional.5 LMU
BE B20"	"professional.6 LMU
BE B50"	transit.6 LMU BE B50	"ready.5
BE B60"
Weight	200 g	200 g	200 g	200 g	300 g	300 g	220 g	330 g	330 g	200 g
Processor in MHz	800	800	800	800	800	800	800	800	800	800
Flash memory	4 GB	4 GB	8 GB	4 GB	4 GB	4 GB	8 GB	8 GB	8 GB	4 GB
SD-RAM	256 MB	256 MB	256 MB	256 MB	256 MB	256 MB	256 MB	256 MB	256 MB	128 MB
Li-polymer battery	1250 mAh	1250 mAh	1250 mAh	1250 mAh	1550 mAh	1550 mAh	1300 mAh	1600 mAh	1600 mAh	1250 mAh
TMC										
Holder for vehicle integration	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
"Bluetooth® hands-free
device"	-	-	-		-					-
"Dimensions in mm
(W x H x D):"	138x85x16	138x85x16	138x85x16	138x85x16	167x103x16	167x103x16	138x85x16	167x103x16	167x103x16	138x85x16
Screen size	12.7 cm	12.7 cm	12.7 cm	12.7 cm	15.8 cm	15.8 cm	12.7 cm	15.8 cm	15.8 cm	12,7cm
Display resolution	800 horizontal and 480 vertical									480 x 272
Resistive touch display							-	-	-	-
Capacitive touch display	-	-	-	-	-	-				
Micro SD card reader	Support class 6 SDHC max. 32 GB; format FAT32									
USB interface	USB Client 2.0, Micro-USB									
1 Internal loudspeaker	1.5 Watt max.									
Supply voltage LPS (Limited Power Source)	5V, 1.3A	5V, 1.3A	5V, 1.3A	5V, 1.3A	5V, 2A	5V, 2A	5V, 2A	5V, 2A	5V, 2A	5V, 1,3A
Compatible with HR holders										
										
										
": standard
- : not available
: optional"	Navigation system									
	Ready 70 LMU BJE00	Transit 70 LMU BJE10	Transit 70 LMU Pro BJE11	Professional 70 LMU BJE12						
Weight	311 g	320 g	320 g	320 g						
Processor in MHz	800	800	800	800						
Flash memory	4 GB	4 GB	8 GB	8 GB						
SD-RAM	256 MB	256 MB	256 MB	256 MB						
Li-polymer battery	1500 mAh	1500 mAh	1500 mAh	1500 mAh						
TMC										
Holder for vehicle integration	-	-	-	-						
"Bluetooth® hands-free
device"	-	-	-	-						
"Dimensions in mm
(W x H x D):"	184x115x15	184x115x15	184x115x15	184x115x15						
Screen size	17,8 cm	17,8 cm	17,8 cm	17,8 cm						
Display resolution	800 horizontal and 480 vertical									
Resistive touch display	-	-	-	-						
Capacitive touch display										
Micro SD card reader	Support class 6 SDHC max. 32 GB; format FAT32									
USB interface	USB Client 2.0, Micro-USB									
1 Internal loudspeaker	2.5 Watt max.									
Supply voltage LPS (Limited Power Source)	5V, 2A	5V, 2A	5V, 2A	5V, 2A						
Compatible with HR holders										
										
										
Dear customer,										
										
In conformance with current EC guidelines, any person may operate this unit. This unit conforms to the current valid European or harmonized national regulations. This designation is your guarantee that the unit conforms to the applicable specifications concerning electromagnetic compatibility. Interference caused by your unit affecting other electrical/electronic devices, as well as interfering influences on your unit from other electrical/electronic devices are largely prevented.										
										
EU Declaration of Conformity										
The United Navigation GmbH hereby declares that the navigation device described here isin compliance with the essential requirements of the EC directives and in particular is incompliance with the essential requirements and other relevant regulations of the R&TTE directive 1999/5/EG.										
										
"You can find a comprehensive EU Declaration of Conformity on our website  http://www.mybecker.com  under the ""Downloads"" area for the respective product."										
										
Disposal of the unit										
Customer information on the disposal of electrical and electronic devices (private households)										
										
According to the self-proclaimed corporate principles of United Navigation GmbH, your product has been developed and manufactured from high-quality, recyclable materials and components.										
This symbol on the product and/or accompanying documentation means that electrical and electronic products must be disposed of separately from the houshold garbage at the end of its service life. Please bring this product to the appropriate collection sites for processing and recycling. The units will be accepted there free of charge.										
The proper disposal of this product serves the purpose of environmental protection and prevents the harmful effects to persons and the environment that may be caused by improper disposal.										
For further information on the nearest collection points, please contact your local municipal authorities.										
										
For commercial customers in the European Union										
Please contact your dealer or supplier if you wish to dispose of this electrical/electronic device.										
										
Information on disposal in countries outside the European Union										
This symbol is only valid within the European Union.										
										
Disposal of the battery										
Duty to supply information according to battery legislation (BattV)										
Batteries must not be disposed of in household waste. It is the duty of the user to return used batteries. Please only dispose of batteries via specialised dealers or at battery collection points. In this way, you make a positive contribution to environmental protection.										
Since 1998, German battery legislation obligates all citizens to dispose of used batteries exclusively via the retail or at collection points specially equipped for this purpose (statutory obligation to return). It is the duty of the retail and of manufacturers to take back these batteries free of charge and to correctly recycle them or to dispose of them as hazardous waste (statutory obligation to take back).										
										
The lithium ion battery in the Navigation device is marked with the adjacent symbol, consisting of a crossed-out waste bin, and the type of battery used.										
										
Removing the battery										
Before you hand in your old unit for disposal, the battery must first be removed.										
										
Li-Ion										
										
Completely discharge the battery (leave the unit switched on with no power supply until it automatically switches off).										
Unscrew and remove the housing screws	(model dependent) using a small screwdriver.									
										
Lever off the rear of the housing	using a flat-blade screwdriver (placed at the slits on the sides of the housing).									
										
Remove the circuit board if necessary; to do this, you first have to remove the screws of the circuit board (model dependent).										
Pull out the connector of the battery connecting cable	.									
										
Remove the battery	.									
										
For devices without screws on the bottom side of the device (model dependent):										
Completely discharge the battery (leave the unit switched on with no power supply until it automatically switches off).										
Lever off the front cover using a flat-headed screw driver (placed between the display and display frame).										
Remove the 5 screws.										
You can now lever off the front of the device from the back panel using a flat-headed screw driver.										
Then remove the circuit board; to do this, you first have to remove the screws of the circuit board.										
Disconnect the plug of the battery connection cable.										
Remove the battery.										
										
United Navigation GmbH Marco-Polo-Str. 1 73760 Ostfildern - Germany										
										
www.mybecker.com										
