USER MANUAL					
					
IMPORTANT CUSTOMER INFORMATION					
					
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT MANY SERVICES AND APPLICATIONS OFFERED THROUGH THIS UNIQUE DEVICE ARE PROVIDED BY VARIOUS DEVICE, OPERATING SYSTEM, SOFTWARE AND APPLICATION DEVELOPERS (E.G. GOOGLE, MOTOROLA, MICROSOFT, PALM, RESEARCH IN MOTION). IF YOU USE, LINK TO OR DOWNLOAD SUCH A SERVICE, OR AN APPLICATION SUCH AS A NON-VERIZON WIRELESS LOCATION BASED GPS-TYPE SERVICE, CHAT ROOM, MARKETPLACE OR SOCIAL NETWORK FROM THIS DEVICE, YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY REVIEW THE TERMS OF SUCH SERVICE OR APPLICATION. IF YOU USE ANY OF THESE NON-VERIZON WIRELESS SERVICES OR APPLICATIONS, PERSONAL INFORMATION YOU SUBMIT MAY BE READ, COLLECTED, OR USED BY THE SERVICE OR APPLICATION PROVIDER AND/OR OTHER USERS OF THOSE FORUMS.					
					
VERIZON WIRELESS IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR YOUR USE OF THOSE APPLICATIONS OR INFORMATION YOU CHOOSE TO SUBMIT OR SHARE WITH OTHERS. SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS, TERMS OF USE, AND PRIVACY POLICES APPLY TO THOSE APPLICATIONS AND SERVICES. PLEASE REVIEW CAREFULLY ANY AND ALL TERMS AND CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO THOSE APPLICATIONS AND SERVICES INCLUDING THOSE RELATED TO ANY LOCATION-BASED SERVICES FOR ANY PARTICULAR PRIVACY POLICIES, RISKS OR WAIVERS.					
					
YOUR VERIZON WIRELESS CUSTOMER AGREEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND CERTAIN OTHER SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFIED TERMS GOVERN YOUR USE OF ANY VERIZON WIRELESS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES					
					
 					
					
P O R T A B L E	A L L	D I G I T A L S M A R T P H O N E			
User Manual					
					
Please read this manual before operating your phone, and keep it for future reference.					
					
Intellectual Property					
All Intellectual Property, as defined below, owned by or which is otherwise the property of Samsung or its respective suppliers relating to the SAMSUNG Phone, including but not limited to, accessories, parts, or software relating there to (the “Phone System”), is proprietary to Samsung and protected under federal laws, state laws, and international treaty provisions. Intellectual Property includes, but is not limited to, inventions (patentable or unpatentable), patents, trade secrets, copyrights, software, computer programs, and related documentation and other works of authorship. You may not infringe or otherwise violate the rights secured by the Intellectual Property. Moreover, you agree that you will not (and will not attempt to) modify, prepare derivative works of, reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, or otherwise attempt to create source code from the software. No title to or ownership in the Intellectual Property is transferred to you. All applicable rights of the Intellectual Property shall remain with SAMSUNG and its suppliers.					
Samsung Telecommunications America (STA), LLC					
					
Headquarters:					
1301 E. Lookout Drive Richardson, TX 75082 Toll Free Tel:					
Customer Care Center:					
1000 Klein Rd.					
Plano, TX 75074					
1.888.987.HELP (4357)					
					
Internet Address:  http://www.samsungusa.com					
					
©					
2010 Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics America, Inc. and its related					
entities.					
Do you have questions about your Samsung Mobile Phone?					
For 24 hour information and assistance, we offer a new FAQ/ARS System (Automated Response System) at:  www.samsungtelecom.com/support					
					
VZW_SCH-I500_Fascinate_English_UM_DH12_TE_081910_F5					
					
GH68-31353A					
					
The Bluetooth® word mark, figure mark (stylized “B Design”), and combination mark (Bluetooth word mark and “B Design”) are registered trademarks and are wholly owned by the Bluetooth SIG.					
Nuance®, VSuiteTM, T9® Text Input, and the Nuance logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Nuance Communications, Inc., or its affiliates in the United States and/or other countries.					
microSD™, microSDHC™ and the microSD logo are Trademarks of the SD Card Association. Swype and the Swype logos are trademarks of Swype, Inc. © 2010 Swype, Inc. All rights reserved. DivX Certified® to play DivX® video up to HD 720p, including premium content.					
DivX®, DivX Certified® and associated logos are registered trademarks of DivX, Inc. and are used under license. Pat. 7,295,673; 7,460,668; 7,515,710; 7,519,274.					
ABOUT DIVX VIDEO: DivX® is a digital video format created by DivX, Inc. This is an official DivX Certified device that plays DivX video. Visit  www.divx.com  for more information and software tools to convert your files into DivX video.					
					
ABOUT DIVX VIDEO-ON-DEMAND: This DivX Certified® device must be registered in order to play DivX Video-on-Demand (VOD) content. To generate the registration code, locate the DivX VOD section in the device setup menu. Go to  vod.divx.com  with this code to complete the registration process and learn more about DivX VOD.					
					
Google, the Google logo, Gmail, Google Talk, YouTube, Picasa, Android and Android Market are trademarks of Google, Inc.					
©					
Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC (“Samsung”). Samsung, Galaxy S, Super AMOLED, and Fascinate are all trademarks of					
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and/or its related entities. All product and brand names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. Screen images simulated. Appearance of the phone may vary.					
©Verizon Wireless. Verizon Wireless and the Verizon Wireless logos are trademarks of Verizon Trademark Services LLC. All company names, trademarks, logos and copyrights not property of Verizon Wireless are the property of their respective owners.					
					
Open Source Software					
Some software components of this product incorporate source code covered under GNU General Public License (GPL), GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL), OpenSSL License, BSD License and other open source licenses. To obtain the source code covered under the open source licenses, please visit:					
http://opensource.samsung.com/category/mobile/mobile-phone/					
Disclaimer of Warranties; Exclusion of Liability					
"EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE EXPRESS WARRANTY CONTAINED ON THE WARRANTY PAGE ENCLOSED WITH THE PRODUCT, THE PURCHASER TAKES THE PRODUCT ""AS IS"", AND SAMSUNG MAKES NO EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE MERCHANTABILITY OF THE PRODUCT OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE; THE DESIGN, CONDITION OR QUALITY OF THE PRODUCT; THE PERFORMANCE OF THE PRODUCT; THE WORKMANSHIP OF THE PRODUCT OR THE COMPONENTS CONTAINED THEREIN; OR COMPLIANCE OF THE PRODUCT WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF ANY LAW, RULE, SPECIFICATION OR CONTRACT PERTAINING THERETO. NOTHING CONTAINED IN THE INSTRUCTION MANUAL SHALL BE CONSTRUED TO CREATE AN EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCT. IN ADDITION, SAMSUNG SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OF ANY KIND RESULTING FROM THE PURCHASE OR USE OF THE PRODUCT OR ARISING FROM THE BREACH OF THE EXPRESS WARRANTY, INCLUDING INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR LOSS OF ANTICIPATED PROFITS OR BENEFITS."					
					
Table of Contents					
					
Section 5: Entering Text	53				
					
Virtual QWERTY Keyboard	53				
					
Text Input Methods	53				
					
Changing the Input Method	53				
					
Entering Text Using Swype	54				
					
Entering Text Using the Android Keyboard	56				
					
Section 6: Messaging	57				
					
Types of Messages	57				
					
Text and Multimedia Messaging	58				
					
Gmail	60				
					
Google Talk	62				
					
Email	62				
					
Mobile IM	65				
					
Section 7: Web and Social Networking	66				
					
Bing	66				
					
YouTube	66				
					
Browser	66				
					
Maps	71				
					
Section 8: Music	73				
					
Music Player	73				
					
Manage and Transfer Media	76				
					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody	76				
					
V CAST Tones	78				
					
Section 9: Pictures and Video	79				
					
Camera	79				
					
V CAST Videos	82				
					
Video Player	83				
					
Gallery	84				
					
Section 10: Connections	86				
					
Wi-Fi	86				
					
3G Mobile Hotspot	88				
					
Bluetooth	89				
					
VPN	90				
					
Dial Up Networking	91				
					
Memory Card	92				
					
Section 11: Applications and Widgets	94				
					
Android Market	94				
					
3G Mobile Hotspot	94				
					
AllShare	94				
					
Bing	95				
					
Blockbuster	95				
					
Browser	95				
					
Buddies now	95				
					
Calculator	95				
					
Calendar	96				
					
Camera	97				
					
Car Cradle	97				
					
City ID	97				
					
Clock	97				
					
Daily Briefing	98				
					
Desk Cradle	98				
					
Email	98				
					
Feeds and Updates	99				
					
Gallery	99				
					
Gmail	99				
					
Kindle	99				
					
Memo	100				
					
Music Player	100				
					
My Files	100				
					
My Verizon Mobile	101				
					
NFS Shift	101				
					
Settings	101				
					
Skype Mobile	101				
					
Task Manager	101				
					
Talk	101				
					
Tetris	102				
					
ThinkFree Office	102				
					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody	102				
					
V CAST Tones	102				
					
V CAST Videos	102				
					
Video Player	102				
					
Voice Recorder	103				
					
Voice Search	103				
					
Voice mail	103				
					
VZ Navigator	103				
					
Voice Commands	104				
					
Weather Clock	107				
					
Write & Go	108				
					
YouTube	108				
					
Section 12: Settings	109				
					
Accessing Settings	109				
					
Wireless & networks	109				
					
Call settings	115				
					
Sound & display	116				
					
Location & security	121				
					
Applications	125				
					
Accounts & sync	127				
					
Privacy	129				
					
SD card & phone storage	130				
					
USB Settings	131				
					
Search	131				
					
Language & keyboard	132				
					
Accessibility	134				
					
Text-to-speech	134				
					
Date & time	135				
					
About phone	135				
					
Section 13: Health and Safety Information	136				
					
Health and Safety Information	136				
					
Please Note the Following Information When Using					
Your Handset	137				
					
Samsung Mobile Products and Recycling	137				
					
UL Certified Travel Adapter	138				
					
Consumer Information on Wireless Phones	138				
					
Road Safety	144				
					
Responsible Listening	145				
					
Operating Environment	147				
					
Using Your Phone Near Other Electronic Devices	147				
					
FCC Hearing-Aid Compatibility (HAC) Regulations					
for Wireless Devices	148				
					
Potentially Explosive Environments	150				
					
Emergency Calls	150				
					
FCC Notice and Cautions	151				
					
Other Important Safety Information	152				
					
Product Performance	152				
					
Availability of Various Features/Ring Tones	153				
					
Battery Standby and Talk Time	153				
					
Battery Precautions	153				
					
Care and Maintenance	155				
					
Section 14: Warranty Information	156				
					
Standard Limited Warranty	156				
					
End User License Agreement for Software	159				
					
Index	165				
					
Section 1: Getting Started					
					
This section helps you to quickly start using your phone.					
Understanding this User Manual					
The sections of this manual generally follow the features of your phone. A robust index for features begins on  page 165.					
					
Also included is important safety information beginning on  page 136,  that you should know before using your phone.					
					
This manual gives navigation instructions according to the default display settings. If you select other settings, navigation steps may be different.					
Unless otherwise specified, all instructions in this manual assume that you are starting from the Home screen. To get to the Home screen, you may need to unlock the phone or keypad. For more information,  see “Securing Your Phone” on page 13.					
					
Note:  Instructions in this manual are based on default settings, and may vary from your phone, depending on the software version on your phone, and any changes to the phone’s Settings.					
					
Unless stated otherwise, instructions in this User Manual start with the phone unlocked, at the Home screen.					
All screen images in this manual are simulated. Actual displays may vary, depending on the software version of your phone and any changes to the phone’s Settings.					
Special Text					
In this manual, you’ll find text that is set apart from the rest. These are intended to point out important information, share quick methods for activating features, to define terms, and more. The definitions for these methods are as follows:					
Notes : Presents alternative options for the current feature, menu, or sub-menu.					
					
Tips : Provides quick or innovative methods, or useful shortcuts.					
					
Important : Points out important information about the current feature that could affect performance.					
					
Warning : Brings to your attention important information to prevent loss of data or functionality, or even prevent damage to your phone.					
					
Text Conventions					
This manual provides condensed information about how to use your phone. To make this possible, the following text conventions are used to represent often-used steps:					
Arrows are used to represent the sequence of selecting successive options in longer, or repetitive, procedures. For example:					
“From the Home screen, touch     Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks  ➔  Wi-Fi settings .”					
					
Activating your Phone					
If you purchased your phone at a Verizon Wireless store, it is activated and ready to use. If you received a new phone by mail, it may need to be activated before you can use it.					
To activate your phone, choose from the following:					
Visit a Verizon Wireless store.					
Contact Verizon Wireless customer support.					
Visit  www.verizonwireless.com  to manage your account online.					
					
Battery					
Your phone is powered by a rechargeable, standard Li-Ion battery. A Wall/USB Charger (Charging Head and USB cable) are included with the phone, for charging the battery.					
Note:  The battery comes partially charged. You must fully charge the battery before using your phone for the first time. A fully discharged battery requires up to 4 hours of charge time.					
					
After the first charge, you can use the phone while charging.					
					
Warning!:  Use only Samsung-approved charging devices and batteries.					
					
Samsung accessories are designed to maximize battery life. Using other accessories may invalidate your warranty and may cause damage.					
Battery Indicator					
The battery icon 					
 in the Annunciator Line shows battery power level. Two to three minutes before the battery becomes too low to operate, the empty battery icon will flash and a tone will sound. If you continue to operate the phone without charging, the phone will power off.					
					
Tip:  Task Manager provides helpful information about extending battery life.					
					
For more information,  see “Task Manager” on page 11.					
					
Battery Cover					
The battery is under a removable cover on the back of the phone.					
Removing the battery cover					
}  Pull up using the slot provided (1), while lifting the cover off the phone (2).					
					
Installing the battery cover					
} Align the cover and press it firmly into place, making sure it snaps into place at the corners.					
Installing and Removing the Battery					
Installing the battery					
Remove the battery cover.					
Insert the battery into the phone, aligning the gold contacts on the battery with the gold contacts in the phone. Push down on the bottom of the battery until it snaps into place.					
Replace the battery cover..					
					
Removing the Battery					
Remove the battery cover.					
Lift the battery up and out of the phone, using the slot provided.					
Replace the battery cover.					
					
Charging the Battery					
Your phone comes with a Wall/USB Charger (Charging Head and USB cable) to charge your phone from any 120/220 VAC outlet.					
					
Note:  The battery comes partially charged. You must fully charge the battery before using your phone for the first time. A fully discharged battery requires up to 4 hours of charge time.					
					
After the first charge, you can use the phone while charging.					
					
On the phone, slide the connector cover (1) to expose the connector.					
Connect the USB cable to the charging head.					
Plug the charging head into a standard AC power outlet.					
When charging is complete, unplug the charging head					
Charging Head					
					
					
					
USB Cable					
					
					
Incorrect					
Correct					
					
Insert the USB cable into the port (2).					
					
Correct	Incorrect				
					
from the power outlet and remove the USB cable from the  phone.					
					
Non-Supported Batteries					
Samsung phones do not support non-approved batteries. Samsung charging accessories, such as the Wall/USB Charger, will only charge Samsung-approved batteries. If you install a non-supported battery and try to charge it, the phone will beep and display the message: “ Battery is not connected ”					
					
If you receive this warning, battery charging is disabled.					
					
Warning!:  Using a non-supported battery may damage your phone.					
					
Turning Your Phone On and Off					
Turning Your Phone On					
} Press and hold the 					
  Power/Lock Key  for three seconds.					
					
While powering on, the phone connects with the network, then displays the Home screen and active alerts.					
Set-up Wizard					
The first time you turn your phone on, the Set-up Wizard will prompt you to customize your phone. Follow the prompts to set:					
Language : Choose English or Espanol.					
					
Backup Assistant : Save your contacts to a secure web site. For more information,  For more information, refer to   “Backup Assistant” on page 51.					
					
Add accounts : Configure access to your Facebook, Twitter, MySpace, Corporate or Google accounts. For more information,  see “Accounts” on page 38.					
					
My Location : Configure your phone’s use of location services. For more information,  see “My Location” on page 121.					
					
Note:  Your phone’s internal antenna is located along the bottom back of the phone. Do not block the antenna; doing so may affect call quality or cause the phone to operate at a higher power level than is necessary.					
					
Turning Your Phone Off					
Press and hold the 					
  Power/Lock Key  for two seconds.					
					
At the prompt, tap  Power off .					
					
Your Google Account					
Your new phone uses your Google account to fully utilize its Android features, including Gmail, Google Talk and the Android Market. When you turn on your phone for the first time, set up a connection with your existing Google account, or create a new Google account.					
To create a Google account, or set up your Google account on your phone, use Accounts & sync settings  (see “Accounts &  					
sync” on page 127.)					
Displaying Your Phone Number					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
About phone  ➔  Status .					
					
Your phone number displays under  My phone number .					
					
System Tutorial					
Learn about important concepts to get the most out of your phone.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
About phone  ➔  System tutorial .					
					
Voice Mail					
All unanswered calls to your phone are sent to voicemail, even if your phone is turned off, so you’ll want to set up your voicemail and personal greeting as soon as you activate your phone.					
For more information,  see “Voicemail” on page 37.					
					
TTY Mode					
Your phone is fully TTY-compatible, allowing you to connect a TTY device to the phone’s headset jack. Before you can use your phone with a TTY device, you’ll need to enable TTY Mode.					
For more information,  see “TTY Mode” on page 116.					
					
Roaming					
When you travel outside your home network’s coverage area, your phone can roam to acquire service on other compatible digital networks. When Roaming is active, the Roaming icon 					
 appears in the Annunciator Line of the display.					
					
Tip:  You can set your phone’s roaming behavior. For more information,  see					
					
“Mobile networks” on page 114.					
					
During roaming, some services may not be available. Depending on your coverage area and service plan, extra charges may apply when making or receiving calls. Contact Verizon Wireless for more information about your coverage area and service plan.					
					
Task Manager					
Your phone can run applications simultaneously, with some applications running in the background.					
Use Task Manager to see which applications are running on your phone, and to end running applications to extend battery life. You can also uninstall applications from your phone and see how much memory is used by applications.					
Task Manager provides information about applications, including:					
Active applications : View and end running applications.					
					
Package : View and uninstall application packages.					
					
Summary : View memory usage.					
					
Help : Useful tips for extending battery life.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Task Manager .					
					
Touch the  Active applications  tab to view applications running on your phone. Touch  End  to end an application, or  End all  to stop all running applications.					
					
Touch the  Package  tab to view package information. Touch					
					
Uninstall  to remove an application from your phone.					
					
Touch the  Summary  tab for RAM and Storage memory statistics.					
					
Touch the  Help  tab for information about extending battery life.					
					
then touch  Task Manager .					
					
You can also access Task Manager from the  Program Monitor  widget. For more information,  see “Widgets” on page 24.					
					
Memory Card					
Your phone supports removable microSD™ or microSDHC™ memory cards of up to 32GB capacity, for storage of music, pictures, and other files.					
					
Note:  You can only store music files that you own (from a CD or purchased with the phone) on a memory card.					
					
					
Important!:  To prevent damage to information stored on the memory card, always unmount the card before removing it from the phone.					
					
Installing a Memory Card					
Remove the battery cover. For more information,  see					
					
“Removing the battery cover” on page 7.					
With the gold contacts facing down, carefully slide the memory card into the slot, pushing gently until it clicks into place (1).					
Install the battery cover. For more information,  see					
					
“Installing the battery cover” on page 7.					
					
Removing a Memory  Card					
					
Important!:  To prevent damage to information stored on the memory card, unmount the card before removing it from the phone.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  SD card & phone storage  ➔  Unmount SD card .					
					
Remove the rear cover. For more information,  see					
					
“Removing the battery cover” on page 7.					
Gently press on the memory card, then release so that it pops out from the slot, and carefully pull the card out (2).					
Install the cover. For more information,  see “Installing the					
					
battery cover” on page 7.					
					
Securing Your Phone					
By default, the phone locks automatically when the screen times out, or you can lock it manually. You can unlock the phone using one of the default Unlock screens, or for increased security, use a personal screen unlock pattern.					
For more information about creating and enabling a Screen unlock pattern,  see “Screen unlock pattern” on page 123.					
					
Tip:  When you use a Screen unlock pattern to secure your phone, the Emergency call feature is available on the lock screen, to allow you to make emergency calls even while the phone is locked.					
					
For other settings related to securing your phone,  see “Location   & security” on page 121.					
					
Note:  Unless stated otherwise, instructions in this User Manual start with the phone unlocked, at the Home screen.					
					
Unlocking the phone					
Press the 					
  Power/Lock Key  to wake the screen.					
					
Touch and drag a puzzle piece to fit it into the empty space.					
					
Special puzzle pieces display for missed calls or new messages. Drag a missed call or message puzzle piece to the empty space to view the message or call log.					
					
Locking the phone manually					
Note:  You can choose the type of Unlock screen. For more information,  see					
					
} Press the 					
  Power/Lock Key  on the side of the phone.					
					
“Unlock screen” on page 120.					
					
Unlocking with a Personal Screen Unlock Pattern					
Press the 					
  Power/Lock Key  to wake the screen.					
					
Draw your unlock pattern on the screen.					
					
Section 2: Understanding Your Phone					
					
This section outlines key features of your phone, including keys, displays, and icons.					
Features					
4-inch 800x480 Super AMOLED touch screen					
CDMA 1X/EVDO Rev-A Wireless Technology					
Android OS					
Google applications, including Google Talk and Gmail					
Android Market, plus pre-loaded applications					
Connections					
– Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g/n					
3G Mobile Hotspot					
Bluetooth 3.0					
VPN					
Dial Up Networking					
Messaging Services					
Text Messaging					
Picture Messaging					
Video Messaging					
Voice Messaging					
Email					
Mobile Instant Messenger (IM)					
Chat					
5 Megapixel CMOS Camera/Camcorder					
Picture Gallery, supporting JPEG, PNG, GIF, A-GIF, WBMP and BMP formats					
HD Video Player (720p), supporting H.263, H.264, MPEG4, 3GP, 3G2 (v9), Xvid and DivX formats					
DivX Certified® to play DivX® video up to HD 720p, including premium content.					
Music Player, supporting WAV, MP3, AAC, AAC+, eAAC+, AMR-NB, AMR-WB, WMA (v9/10), EVRC, QCELP, MIDI, and SP-MIDI formats					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody®, V CAST Tones and V CAST Videos					
Speakerphone					
Voice recognition by Nuance®					
Support for microSD™ and microSDHC™ Memory Cards up to 32GB capacity					
Bluetooth® 3.0 Wireless Technology. For more information about supported profiles,  see “Bluetooth profiles” on page 110.					
					
Front View	1. Earpiece and Sub-microphone : Listen to callers. In Speakerphone mode, captures your voice. While recording				
					
video, captures audio. Avoid covering the sub-microphone during Speakerphone mode or when recording video.					
Microphone : Using during calls to allow callers to hear your voice, and when recording.					
					
Menu Key : Touch to display options for the current screen.					
					
Home Key : Touch to display the Home screen. Touch and hold to display recent applications or launch Task Manager.					
					
Back Key : Touch to return to the previous screen or option.					
					
Search Key : Touch to launch Search, to search your device or the web.					
					
Side Views	1. Strap holder : Attach an optional carrying strap (not  included).				
					
Volume Key : From the Home screen, press to adjust Master Volume. During calls or music playback, press to adjust volume. Press to mute the ringtone of an incoming call.					
					
Power/Lock Key : Press and hold to turn the phone on or off. Press to lock the phone, or to wake the screen for unlocking.					
					
Back View	1. 3.5mm Headset Jack : Plug in an optional headset or TTY equipment.				
					
Camera Lens : Used when taking photos or recording videos.					
					
Camera Flash : Used when taking photos.					
					
External Speaker : Plays ringtones, call audio when in  Speakerphone mode, music and other sounds.					
					
USB Power/Accessory Port : Connect a USB cable for charging or to sync music and files.					
					
Navigation					
Navigate your phone’s features using the command keys and the touch screen.					
Warning!:  If your handset has a touch screen display, please note that a touch screen responds best to a light touch from the pad of your finger or a non-metallic stylus. Using excessive force or a metallic object when pressing on the touch screen may damage the tempered glass surface and void the warranty. For more information,  see “Warranty Information” on page 156.					
					
Command Keys					
Menu Key					
Touch 					
  Menu  to display a context-sensitive menu of options  for the current screen or feature.					
					
Home Key					
Touch 					
  Home  to display the Home screen.					
					
Touch and hold 					
  Home  to launch a menu of recent  applications, or to launch Task Manager.					
					
Back Key					
Touch 					
  Back  to return to the previous screen, option or step.					
					
Search Key					
Touch 					
  Search  to launch Quick Search, to search the web and your phone.					
					
Context-sensitive Menus					
While using your phone, context-sensitive menus offer options for the feature or screen. To access context-sensitive menus:					
Touch 					
  Menu .					
					
Touch and hold on an item.					
Finger Gestures					
Touch					
Touch items to select or launch them. For example:					
Touch the on screen keyboard to enter characters or text.					
Touch a menu item to select it.					
Touch an application’s icon to launch the application.					
Touch and Hold					
Activate onscreen items by a touch and hold gesture. For example:					
Touch and hold a widget on the home screen to move it.					
Touch and hold on a field to display a pop-up menu of options.					
Swipe, Flick or Slide					
Swipe, flick or slide your finger vertically or horizontally across the screen. For example:					
Unlocking the screen					
Scrolling the Home screen or a me nu					
					
Notification Panel					
The Notification Panel shows information about connections, messages and other items.					
}  Sweep your finger downward from the top of the screen.					
					
Touch a connection					
  icon to activate Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS and/or Airplane.					
Tap a					
Connection Icons					
Icons at the top of the Notification Panel show connection status for  Wi-Fi ,  Bluetooth ,  GPS , and  Airplane mode .					
					
Touch an icon to enable the connection.					
For more information about Connection settings,  For more   information, refer to “Wireless & networks” on page 109.					
					
Clearing Notifications					
Sweep your finger downward from the top of the screen to					
					
notification to open the related application					
Tap to clear all notifications					
					
Touch and hold and then slide up to close the					
Notification panel					
display the Notifications Panel.					
Touch a notification to clear it.					
– or –					
Touch  Clear  to clear all notifications					
					
Home Screen					
The Home screen is the starting point for using your phone.					
					
Annunciator Line : Presents icons to show network status, battery power, and connection details. For a list of icons,  see “Annunciator Line” on page 22.					
					
Home screen : The starting point for using your phone. Place icons, widgets and other items to customize your phone to your needs. For more information,  see “Home   Screen” on page 20.					
					
Primary Shortcuts : Shortcuts to your phone’s common features. For more information,  see “Primary Shortcuts”   on page 23.					
					
Shortcuts : Shortcuts to common applications.These shortcuts are found on the Home screen by default. For more information, 					
see “Shortcuts” on page 26.					
Widgets : Applications that run on the Home screen. These widgets are found on the Home screen by default. For more information,  see “Widgets” on page 24.					
					
		Display settings			
					
Note:  Unless stated otherwise, instructions in this User Manual start with the phone unlocked, at the Home screen.					
					
You can customize display settings to your preferences. For more information,  see “Display settings” on page 119.					
					
Extended Home Screen					
The Home screen consists of the Home panel, plus 6 panels that extend beyond the display width to provide more space for adding shortcuts, widgets and folders.					
Slide your finger horizontally across the screen to scroll to the left or right side panels. As you scroll, the indicator at the top of the  display shows your current position.					
					
Customizing the Home Screen					
Customize the Home screen to suit your preferences.					
Add Shortcuts : For more information,  see “Shortcuts” on page 26.					
					
Add Widgets : For more information,  see “Widgets” on page 24.					
					
Add Folders : For more information,  see “Folders” on page 27.					
					
Change the Wallpaper : For more information,  see “Wallpaper” on   page 27.					
					
Adding and removing Home screen panels					
Your phone comes with 7 Home screen panels. You can customize the Home screen to include up to the seven default panels, and set one panel as Home.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Edit page .					
					
Sweep your finger across the screen to scroll the panels, and use these controls to configure panels:					
Delete : Remove the panel from the Home screen.					
					
Add : Scroll the panels to display the location for a panel, then touch the  Add  button. Add previously- removed panels up to the default total of seven.					
					
Set as Home : Touch to assign a panel as the Home screen. The panel set as Home will display when you touch 					
  Home .					
					
Annunciator Line					
The Annunciator line displays icons to show network status, battery power, and other details.					
Signal Strength : Current signal strength. The greater the number of bars, the stronger the signal.					
					
Airplane Mode Active : All wireless communications are disabled.  See “Airplane mode” on page 113.					
					
System Alert : Check Notifications Panel for alerts.					
					
Voice Call : A voice call is in progress.					
					
Speakerphone : Speakerphone is enabled.					
					
Missed Call : Displays when there is a missed call.					
					
Battery Level : Shown fully charged.					
					
Charging Indicator : Battery is charging.					
					
Device Power Critical : Battery has only three percent power remaining. Charge immediately.					
					
3G Connection Active : Phone is active on a 3G system.					
					
					
USB Connected :The phone is connected to acomputer using a USB cable.					
					
New Message : You have new message(s).  New Voicemail : You have new voicemail.  New Email Message : You have new email.					
					
Alarm Set : An alarm is active.  For more information,					
					
refer to “Clock” on page 97.					
Silent mode : All sounds except media and alarms are silenced.  See “Silent mode” on page 116.					
					
Vibrate mode : All sounds are silenced, but the phone vibrates for alerts.  See “Ringer volume” on page 117.					
					
					
SD Card Ready : An optional memory card is installed.  SD Card Removed : A memory card was uninstalled.  Bluetooth Active					
: Bluetooth is turned on.					
					
Bluetooth Connected : The phone is paired with					
					
another Bluetooth device.					
Wi-Fi Active : Wi-Fi is connected, active, and communicating with a Wireless Access Point (WAP).					
					
Wi-Fi Action Needed : Action needed to connect to Wireless Access Point (WAP).					
					
TTY : TTY Mode is active.					
					
Primary Shortcuts					
Primary Shortcuts appear at the bottom of the display. You can edit the Primary Shortcuts, except for the	Applications  /				
					
Home  shortcut.					
					
Note:  When you access  Applications , the	Home  shortcut replaces the				
					
Applications  shortcut to provide quick return to the Home screen.					
					
Phone : Launches the Phone, to make calls. For more information,  see “Making Calls” on page 32.					
					
Contacts : Store and manage your contacts. For more information,  see “Contacts” on page 42.					
					
Messaging : Send and receive messages. For more information,  see “Messaging” on page 57.					
					
Applications : Access your phone’s applications. For more information,  see “Applications” on page 28.					
					
Editing the Primary Shortcuts					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Edit .					
					
Touch and hold an icon, then drag it to replace a primary shortcut.					
When you are finished, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Save .					
					
Widgets					
Widgets are self-contained applications that you can place on the  Home screen to access favorite features.					
					
Adding Widgets to the Home screen					
Navigate to the desired Home screen, then touch and hold on the screen to display the  Add to Home screen  menu.					
					
Touch  Samsung Widgets  or  Android Widgets , then touch a widget to add it to the Home screen.					
					
Removing Widgets					
} Touch and hold the Widget until 					
  Trashcan  appears, then drag the Widget to the  Trashcan .					
					
Samsung Widgets					
					
Analog Clock 1 : Display an analog clock.					
					
					
  Analog Clock 2 : Display an analog clock.					
					
  Analog Clock 3 : Display an analog clock.					
					
  Analog Clock 4 : Display an analog clock.					
					
Buddies now : Quickly call or send a message to favorite contacts, from the Home screen. Appears on the Home screen by default. For more information,  see “Buddies now” on page 52.					
					
Calendar Clock : Display an analog clock with the current date.					
					
Daily Briefing : Monitor the weather, financial information, news and your schedule from one convenient location on the Home screen. Appears on the Home screen by default. For more information,  see “Daily Briefing” on page 98.					
					
  Digital Clock 1 : Display a digital clock.					
					
					
  Digital Clock 2 : Display a digital clock.					
					
					
  Dual Clock 1 : Display two time zones.					
					
  Dual Clock 2 : Display two time zones.					
					
Feeds and Updates : Display feeds from your Facebook, MySpace, and Twitter accounts, and post an update to your accounts, right from the Home screen. Appears on the Home screen by default. For more information,  see “Feeds and Updates” on					
  page 41.					
					
Program Monitor : Display the number of active applications. Touch to launch Task Manager. For more information,  see “Task Manager” on page 11.					
					
Weather Clock : Display a clock with weather information from WeatherBug. Appears on the Home screen by default. For more information, 					
see   “Weather Clock” on page 107.					
					
Android Widgets					
Bing : Launch Bing search. Appears by default on the Home screen. For more information,  see “Bing” on   page 66.					
					
Data usage : View data usage for the billing period. Touch to launch My Verizon Mobile for information about data usage and other account details. For more information,  see “My Verizon Mobile” on page 101.					
					
Picture frame : Display a picture from the Gallery on the Home screen.					
					
Power control : Control Wi Fi, Bluetooth, and GPS connections, and set automatic synchronization and brightness settings.					
					
YouTube : Search YouTube and watch videos.					
					
Shortcuts					
Use Shortcuts for quick access to applications or features.					
Adding Shortcuts from the Home screen					
Navigate to a Home screen panel, then touch and hold on the screen to display the  Add to Home screen  menu.					
					
Touch  Shortcuts , then touch a selection:					
					
Applications : Launch an application. For a list,  see					
					
“Applications” on page 28.					
  Bookmark : Launch a bookmarked web page.					
					
  Contact : View a contact you specify.					
					
  Direct dial : Automatically call a contact you specify.  Direct message : Create a message to a contact you specify.					
					
  Gmail label : Launch a Gmail account.					
					
  Maps : Launch Bing Maps.					
					
Settings : Go to a specific setting.					
					
Adding Shortcuts from Applications					
Navigate to a Home screen panel.					
Touch 					
  Applications .					
					
Touch and hold on an application icon. The Shortcut icon is automatically placed on the selected Home screen.					
Removing Shortcuts					
} Touch and hold the Shortcut until 					
  Trashcan  appears, then drag the Shortcut to the  Trashcan .					
					
3.  Follow the prompts to configure the Shortcut and add it to the Home screen.					
					
Folders					
Place Folders on the Home screen to organize items together on the Home screen.					
Navigate to the desired Home screen, then touch and hold on the screen to display the  Add to Home screen  menu.					
					
Touch  Folders , then touch a selection:					
					
  New folder : Create a new empty folder.					
					
  All contacts : Create a folder containing all contacts.					
					
Contacts with phone numbers : Create a folder containing contacts with stored phone numbers.					
					
Received list from Bluetooth : Create a folder containing a list of items received via Bluetooth.					
					
Recent documents : Create a folder containing documents opened recently with ThinkFree Office.					
					
Starred contacts : Create a folder containing contacts marked as Favorites.					
					
Wallpaper					
Choose a picture to display in the background of the Home screen. You can choose from pre-loaded wallpaper images, or select a picture you’ve taken with the Camera or downloaded.					
From the Home screen, touch and hold on the screen to display the  Add to Home screen  menu, then touch  Wallpapers .					
					
– or –					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Wallpaper .					
					
Choose a source for images:					
Gallery : Access the Gallery to choose a picture from an installed memory card. Touch a picture to select it, then use the crop tool to resize the picture, if desired. Touch  Save  to save the picture as wallpaper.					
					
Live wallpapers : Choose from pre-loaded interactive animated wallpapers. Touch a wallpaper to see an example, then touch  Set wallpaper					
.					
					
Wallpaper gallery : Choose from pre-loaded wallpaper images. Touch a wallpaper, then touch  Set wallpaper .					
					
Removing Folders					
} Touch and hold the Folder until 					
  Trashcan  appears, then drag the Folder to the  Trashcan .					
					
Applications					
The Applications screen holds all applications installed on your wireless device. Applications that you download and install from Android Market or from the web are also added to the Applications screen.					
You can place shortcuts to applications on the Home screen, for quick access to the application. For more information,  see  					
“Adding Shortcuts from Applications” on page 26.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications .					
					
Slide your finger left or right to scroll the Applications screens.					
					
Customizing the Applications Screens					
Choosing a view					
By default, application icons appear in Grid view. You can change the view to list view.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  List View .					
					
Moving Application icons					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Edit .					
					
Touch and hold an application icon, then drag it to a new location.					
					
Touch an icon to launch					
					
the application.					
Tip:  You can place Applications on the Primary Shortcuts bar, to allow access to the application from any screen. For more information, see  “Editing the Primary Shortcuts”  on page 23.					
					
When you are finished, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Save .					
					
Applications					
					
3G Mobile Hotspot : Share your phone’s mobile internet connection with a PC through Wi-Fi. For more information,  see “3G Mobile Hotspot” on page 88.					
					
AllShare : Synchronize your phone with your TV. For more information,  see “AllShare” on page 94.					
					
Bing : Search the web. For more information,  see					
					
“Bing” on page 66.					
Blockbuster : Browse and search the entire mobile catalog of Blockbuster On Demand titles. For more information,  see “Blockbuster” on page 95.					
					
Browser : Access the Internet. For more information,  see “Browser” on page 66.					
					
Calculator : Perform mathematical calculations. For more information,  see “Calculator” on page 95.					
					
Calendar : Record events and appointments to manage your schedule. For more information,  see   “Calendar” on page 96.					
					
Camera : Take pictures or record videos. For more information,  see “Camera” on page 79.					
					
Car Cradle : Operate your phone with an optional Car Cradle accessory. For more information,  see “Car   Cradle” on page 97.					
					
City ID : Subscribe to display the city and state for incoming calls. For more information,  see “City ID” on   page 97.					
					
Clock : Keep track of time with Alarm, World clock, Stopwatch and Timer features.					
					
Contacts : Save and manage contact information for your friends and colleagues. Appears in the Primary Shortcuts by default. For more information,  see   “Contacts” on page 42.					
					
Daily Briefing : Monitorweather, financial information, news and your schedule, from one application. For more information,  see “Daily Briefing” on page 98.					
					
Desk Cradle : Operate your phone with an optional Desk Cradle accessory. For more information,  see   “Desk Cradle” on page 98.					
					
Email : Send and receive email from your phone. For more information,  see “Email” on page 62.					
					
					
Gallery : View and manage pictures stored on your phone, or on an optional installed memory card. For more information,  see “Gallery” on page 84.					
					
Gmail : Send and receive emails via Gmail, Google’s web-based email. For more information,  see “Gmail”   on page 60.					
					
Kindle : Download Amazon books. For more information,  see “Kindle” on page 99.					
					
Market : Browse, download, and install Android applications. For more information,  see “Android   Market” on page 94.					
					
Memo : Create text memos, and send memos via Bluetooth. For more information,  see “Memo” on   page 100.					
					
Messaging : Send and receive messages. Appears by default in the Primary Shortcuts. For more information,  see “Messaging” on page 57.					
					
Mobile IM : Send and receive IMs via AOL, Windows Live, or Yahoo!. For more information,  see “Mobile   IM” on page 65.					
					
Music Player : Play music stored on an optional installed memory card. For more information,  see   “Music Player” on page 73.					
					
					
My Files : Find, view and manage files stored on an optional installed memory card. For more information,  see “My Files” on page 100.					
					
My Verizon Mobile : View details and manage your Verizon Wireless account. For more information,  see   “My Verizon Mobile” on page 101.					
					
NFS Shift : Play the popular Need for Speed: Shift game on your phone.					
					
Phone : Make and answer calls. Appears by default in Primary Shortcuts. For more information,  see “Call   Functions” on page 32.					
					
Settings : Configure your phone to your preferences. For more information,  see “Settings” on page 109.					
					
Skype mobile ™: Make calls and send instant messages to anyone who has Skype. For more information,  see “Skype Mobile” on page 101.					
					
Talk : Chat with other Google Talk users. For more information,  see “Google Talk” on page 62.					
					
					
Task Manager : View and manage active applications. For more information,  see “Task Manager” on   page 11.					
					
  Tetris : Play the popular game, right on your phone.					
					
ThinkFree Office Suite for Android TM: View and manage files in a Microsoft® Office-compatible					
					
software suite. For more information,  see “ThinkFree   Office” on page 102.					
					
VCAST Music with Rhapsody ®: Browse and download songs from the V CAST with Rhapsody catalog. For more information, 					
see “V CAST Music with   Rhapsody” on page 76.					
					
V CAST Tones : Preview, download and purchase ringtones and ringback tones. For more information,  see “V CAST Tones” on page 78.					
					
V CAST Videos : Browse and download videos from the V CAST library. For more information,  see “V CAST   Videos” on page 82.					
					
Video Player : Play and manage videos stored on an installed memory card. For more information,  see   “Video Player” on page 83.					
					
Voice Commands : Speak commands to make calls, and to launch other phone features. For more information,  see “Voicemail” on page 37.					
					
					
Voice Recorder : Record your voice or other sounds, and share recordings via Bluetooth, Messaging, or Gmail. For more information, 					
see “VoiceRecorder” on   page 103.					
					
Voice Search : Perform a Google search by speaking your search terms. For more information,					
					
Voicemail : Retrieve messages from callers. For more information,  see “Voicemail” on page 37.					
					
VZ Navigator : Find, share and navigate to millions of locations. For more information,  see “VZ Navigator”   on page 103.					
					
Write & Go : Capture ideas, then choose a format for sending via Gmail, saving to the Calendar or as a memo, or posting it to Facebook. For more information,  see “Write & Go” on page 108.					
					
YouTube : View and upload YouTube videos, right from your phone. For more information,  see “YouTube” on   page 66.					
					
Section 3:  Call Functions					
					
This section describes how to make, answer or end calls.					
Making Calls					
Your phone offers multiple ways to make calls:					
Use the touch screen  Phone Dialer  to enter the phone number or speed dial number.					
					
Call a contact from  Contacts .					
					
Call a contact from  Favorites .					
					
Return a call, or call a recent caller, from  Call log .					
					
Voice dial using  Voice Commands .					
					
Making Calls Using the Phone Dialer					
From a Home screen, touch 					
  Phone .					
					
Touch the digits of the telephone or speed dial number on the  Dialer  keypad. While dialing, use these options:					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Add to Contacts  to add the number you entered to a new contact, or to update an existing contact.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Speed dial setting  to dial or set Speed Dials.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Add 2 sec pause  to insert a 2-second pause in the telephone number.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Add wait  to insert a Wait pause in the telephone number, to pause dialing to wait for input from you.					
					
Touch	to place the call.				
					
Making Calls using Speed Dials					
Speed Dials are 1-, 2-, or 3-digit shortcuts (1 to 100) you assign to contacts, to allow you to quickly call the contact. For more information about setting speed dials,  see “Speed Dials” on   page 51.					
					
From a Home screen, touch 					
  Phone .					
					
Touch the digits of the speed dial number on the Dialer keypad, holding the last digit until the number dials.					
Making Calls from Contacts					
A contact is an entry that you have created to store the name, numbers, and other information for people or groups of interest.					
For more information,  see “Contacts” on page 42.					
					
From a Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Find the contact and touch it to open the Contact entry.					
Touch	to dial the default number for the Contact.				
					
Making Calls using Voice Commands					
Place a call by speaking the name or number. For more information,  see “Voice Commands” on page 104.					
					
Making Calls using Favorites					
Favorites are contacts that you designate as favorites by starring them. For more information about creating favorites,  see  					
“Favorites” on page 47.					
From a Home screen, touch 					
  Phone .					
					
Touch 					
  Favorites  to display favorites.					
					
Find the contact and touch it to open the Contact entry.					
Touch	to dial the default number for the Contact.				
					
Making Calls from Call Log					
Return a call, or call a number from a recent call stored in Call log. For more information about Call log,  see “Call Log” on   page 36.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Phone .					
					
Touch 					
  Call log  to display recent calls.					
					
Find a call, then touch	Call  to dial the number.				
					
Three-Way Calling					
Merge two calls to set up a three-way call between you and two other parties.					
Setting up a Multi-Party Call					
Establish a call, either by dialing or answering an incoming call.					
Touch  Add Call . The first call is placed on hold, and the					
					
Dialer  displays.					
					
Enter the second phone number, then touch 					
.					
					
Touch  Merge . The two calls are joined into one, 3-way call.					
					
Answering Calls					
You can answer incoming calls when the phone is locked or unlocked.					
}  With the phone unlocked, touch  Answer .					
					
– or –					
With the phone locked, touch and drag the  Answer  puzzle piece to the empty space.					
					
					
Tip:  To silence the ringtone for an incoming call, use the  Quiet  button or puzzle piece, or press the  Volume Key  down.					
					
Sending Calls to Voicemail					
When your phone alerts you to an incoming call, you can ignore the call to send the caller to voice mail, or ignore the call and  send a message to the caller.					
Ignoring a call					
}  With the phone unlocked, touch  Ignore .					
					
– or –					
With the phone locked, touch and drag the  Ignore  puzzle piece to the empty space.					
					
Ignoring a call with a message					
} With the phone unlocked, touch  Ignore , then touch Message to choose a message or create a new message.					
					
– or –					
With the phone locked, touch and drag the  Ignore  puzzle piece to the empty space, then touch  Message . Unlock the phone to choose a message or create a new message.					
					
Note:  For more information about creating ignore messages,  see “Ignore   with message” on page 115.					
					
Answering Call-Waiting Calls					
When you receive a call while on a call:					
Touch  Answer  to answer the incoming call. The original call is placed on hold, and remains on hold until you end the second call, or swap calls back to the original call.					
					
Touch  Swap  to place a call on hold and return to the original call.					
					
In-Call Options					
While in a call, you can use these features:					
Dialpad : Display a dialpad to enter numbers.					
					
End cal l: End the phone call.					
					
Add call : Display the Dialer to set up a multi-party call.					
					
Speaker : Enable or disable speakerphone.					
					
Mute : Mute or unmute your voice on the call.					
					
Bluetooth : Switch the call’s audio to a Bluetooth headset.					
					
Ending a Call					
}  Touch	.				
					
Call Log					
When you place, answer, or miss a call, a record of the call is saved in the Call log.					
Accessing Call Log					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Phone  ➔ 					
  Call log .					
					
Sending Messages using Call Log					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Phone  ➔ 					
  Call log .					
					
Touch and hold on a call record, then select  Send message  to create a new message, with the phone number entered in the  To 					
list.					
Continue creating the message. For more information,  see					
					
“Creating and Sending Messages” on page 58.					
Creating or Updating Contacts Using Call Log					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Phone  ➔ 					
  Call log .					
					
Touch and hold on a call record, then select  Add to Contacts  from the pop-up menu.					
					
Choose  Create contact  or  Update existing .					
					
Continue entering contact information. For more information,  see “Contacts” on page 42.					
					
Managing the Call Log					
Deleting Call log records					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Phone  ➔ 					
  Call log .					
					
While viewing the Call log, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Delete .					
					
Touch call records to mark them for deletion, or touch  Select all . A check appears in the check box to show marked records.					
					
Touch  Delete  to delete marked records.					
					
Filtering Call log records					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Phone  ➔ 					
  Call log .					
					
While viewing the Call log, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  View by .					
					
Select a filter type, from  All calls ,  Missed calls ,  Dialled calls , or  Received calls .					
					
Viewing call durations					
View the length of the Last call, all Dialled calls, all Received calls, or All calls.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Phone  ➔ 					
  Call log .					
					
While viewing the Call log, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Call duration .					
					
Voicemail					
All unanswered calls to your phone are sent to voicemail, even if your phone is turned off, so you’ll want to set up your voicemail  and personal greeting as soon as you activate your phone.					
Setting up Voicemail					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Voicemail .					
					
– or –					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voicemail  ➔  Call Voice Mail .					
					
Follow the automated instructions to set up your new  password and record a greeting.					
					
Checking Voicemail					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Voice Mail .					
					
– or –					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voicemail  ➔  Call Voice Mail .					
					
Follow the automated instructions to manage voicemail.					
Visual Voicemail					
Use Visual Voicemail to view voice mail details right on your phone. You can choose messages to retrieve, without listening to all messages.					
Note:  Visual Voicemail requires a subscription. For more information, contact Verizon Wireless.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Voicemail  ➔					
					
Visual Voicemail .					
					
Tip:  You can also access  Voicemail  by dialing your phone number from any touch-tone phone.					
					
Section 4: Contacts and Accounts					
					
This section explains how to manage your contacts and  accounts.					
					
Accounts					
Your phone provides the ability to synchronize information from a variety of accounts, including Google, a Corporate Exchange server, and social networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter, and MySpace. With synchronization, you can ensure that information on your phone is updated with any information that changes in your accounts.					
Synchronize contacts with your Facebook, Twitter and MySpace accounts.					
Note:  You must register your phone with your social network site before using the phone to access the networks.					
					
With Corporate Exchange and Google accounts you can synchronize Calendar events and Contacts.					
Tip:  For more information on setting up your email, visit the Smartphone Resource Center at 					
https://smartphones.verizonwireless.com , click on the Smartphone Support tab and select your phone.					
					
Setting Up Your Accounts					
Set up and manage your synchronized accounts with the Accounts & sync setting.					
For information about setting up other, non-synchronized email  accounts,  see “Configuring Email Accounts” on page 62.					
					
Adding a Google account					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync .					
					
Touch  Add account  ➔  Google.					
					
At the  Add a Google Account  screen, touch  Next  to begin, then touch an option:					
					
Create : Follow the prompts to create a new account.					
					
Sign in : Enter your Google  Username  and  Password , then touch					
					
Sign In .					
					
The phone communicates with the Google server to set up your account. When complete, your Google account appears in the  Manage accounts  area of the  Accounts & sync  screen.					
					
Managing a Google account					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
Accounts & sync .					
					
Tap your Google account to display the  Data & synchronization  screen.					
					
Tap a setting to enable or disable synchronization. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box:					
Sync Contacts : When enabled, synchronizes your Google contacts with your phone’s Contacts.					
					
Sync Gmail : When enabled, synchronizes your Gmail messages on your phone.					
					
Sync Calendar : When enabled, synchronizes your Google calendar with your phone.					
					
Adding a Corporate account					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync .					
					
Touch  Add account  ➔  Corporate.					
					
At the  Set up email  screen, enter your  Email address  and					
					
Password , then touch  Next .					
					
At the  Server settings  screen, enter server settings, then touch  Next . The phone communicates with the server to confirm your account.					
					
At the  Account options  screen, select account settings, then touch  Next .					
					
At the  Set up email  screen, enter a name for the account (this name will display on screen), and enter your name to appear on outgoing messages. Touch  Done  to complete set-up.					
					
Your Corporate account appears in the  Manage accounts  area of the  Accounts & sync  screen, and in the Email application.					
					
Managing a Corporate Exchange account					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync .					
					
Touch your Corporate account to display settings, then touch  Account settings  for these settings:					
					
General settings					
Account name : Enter a name to identify the account.					
					
Your name : Enter your name, to be used in outgoing emails.					
					
Email check frequency : Choose a frequency for the phone to check the server for new emails.					
					
Amount to synchronize : Choose a time period to determine how many days’ email will synchronize.					
					
Default account : Touch to assign or un-assign this account as the default account for sending email from your phone.					
					
Notification settings					
Email notifications : Enable or disable display of a new email icon in the Annunciator line when new mail arrives.					
					
Select ringtone : Assign a ringtone for new email notifications.					
					
Vibrate : Enable or disable vibration with new email notifications.					
					
Server settings					
Incoming settings : Modify server settings.					
					
Sync contacts : Enable to synchronize your Exchange contacts with your phone’s Contacts.					
					
Sync Calendar : Enable to synchronize your Exchange calendar with your phone’s calendar.					
					
Under  Data & synchronization , configure these settings:					
					
Sync Contacts : When enabled, synchronizes your Exchange contacts with your phone’s Contacts.					
					
Sync Calendar : When enabled, synchronizes your Exchange contacts with your phone.					
					
Setting Up a Facebook account	Setting Up a MySpace account				
					
	Note:  You must register your phone with Facebook before using the phone to access the site. From your Facebook account, go to Account Settings and follow the “Activate a Phone” registration instructions.				
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync  ➔  Add account  ➔ Facebook .					
					
Enter your Email and Password, then touch Log in.					
Follow the prompts to complete the set-up.					
Setting Up a Twitter account					
Note:  You must register your phone with Twitter before using the phone to access the site. From Twitter.com Settings, follow the instructions in the Mobile area to register your phone.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync  ➔  Add account  ➔ Twitter .					
					
Enter your Email and Password, then touch  Log in .					
					
Follow the prompts to complete the set-up.					
Note:  You must register your phone with MySpace before using the phone to access the site. From the MySpace Account Settings, follow the “Mobile Activation” registration.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync  ➔  Add account  ➔ MySpace .					
					
Enter your Email and Password, then touch  Log in .					
					
Follow the prompts to complete the set-up.					
Feeds and Updates					
Feeds and Updates displays feeds from your Facebook, MySpace, and Twitter accounts, and allows you to post an update to your accounts, right from the Home screen.					
Tip:  The Feeds and Updates widget is available by default on the Home screen, or is available in the Samsung Widgets. For more information about placing widgets on the Home screen,  see “Widgets” on page 24.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Setup  on the Feeds and Updates widget to configure your preferences.					
					
Note:  When you set up Facebook, Myspace and Twitter accounts on your phone, your accounts automatically appear in Feeds and Updates.					
					
Contacts					
To access Contacts:					
}  From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Creating Contacts					
From the Home screen, touch  Contacts  ➔  Create contact .					
					
At the  Save contact to  prompt, touch an account for saving the contact (available options depend on the accounts you have set up):					
					
Phone : Saves to the phone’s Contacts.					
					
Google : Saves to your Google account.					
					
Corporate : Saves to your Corporate Exchange account.					
					
Touch contact fields to enter information:					
Touch  Photo ID  to choose a picture to identify the contact.					
					
Touch  First name , then enter a first name for the contact.					
					
Touch  Last name , then enter a last name for the contact. After entering a last name touch  Expand  to enter a Name prefix or Middle name.					
					
Touch  Phone number  to enter a phone number, then touch the  Label  button to choose a label, from  Mobile ,  Home ,  Work , 					
Work Fax ,  Pager ,  Assistant ,  Other , or  Custom  to create a custom label. To add another number, touch  Add phone number .					
					
Touch  Email address  to enter an email address, then touch the  Label  button to choose a label, from  Home ,  Work ,  Mobile , 					
Other , or  Custom  to create a custom label. To add another address, touch  Add email address .					
					
Touch  Instant msg  to enter an instant message address, then touch the label button to choose a label, from  Google Talk ,  AIM , 					
Windows Live ,  Yahoo ,  Skype ,  QQ ,  ICQ ,  Jabber , or  Custom  to create a custom label. To add another IM, touch  Add IM .					
					
Touch  Groups  to assign the contact to a group. For more information about Groups,  see “Groups” on page 48.					
					
Touch  Ringtone  to choose a ringtone for the contact.					
					
Touch  Company  to enter a company name.					
					
Touch  Job title  to enter a work title.					
					
To add more fields, tap  Add more fields  to choose  Nickname ,  Postal address ,  Web address ,  Birthday ,  Anniversary  and 					
Note .					
					
When you finish entering information, touch	.				
					
Creating Contacts from Call log					
Save a phone number from a recent call record to create a new contact, or update an existing contact.					
For more information,  see “Creating or Updating Contacts Using   Call Log” on page 36.					
					
Creating Contacts from the Phone Dialer					
Enter a phone number with the Phone Dialer keypad, then save it.					
From a Home screen, touch 					
  Phone .					
					
Touch the digits of the phone number on the  Dialer  keypad.					
					
Touch  Add to Contacts , then select  Create contact  from the pop-up menu.					
					
Continue entering contact information. For more information,  see “Creating Contacts” on page 42.					
					
Updating Contacts					
Make changes to update an existing contact.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch a contact to view its information, then touch					
  Menu  ➔  Edit .					
					
– or –					
Touch and hold on a contact, then select  Edit  from the pop- up menu.					
					
Continue entering contact information. For more information,  see “Creating Contacts” on page 42.					
					
Updating Contacts from the Phone Dialer					
Enter a phone number with the Phone Dialer keypad, then save it.					
From a Home screen, touch 					
  Phone .					
					
Touch the digits of the phone number on the  Dialer  keypad.					
					
Touch  Add to Contacts , then select  Update existing  from the pop-up menu.					
					
Select a contact to update, then touch  Save , or continue entering contact information. For more information,  see   “Creating Contacts” on page 42.					
					
Updating Contacts from Call log					
Save a phone number from a recent call record to create a new contact, or update an existing contact.					
For more information,  see “Creating or Updating Contacts Using   Call Log” on page 36.					
					
Get Friends					
Use the Get Friends feature to sync with your accounts. You can choose from an account you’ve already set up on your phone, or set up a new account.					
For more information about setting up accounts on your phone,  see “Setting Up Your Accounts” on page 38.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Get friends .					
					
Touch  Add Account , then touch an account.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Sync now .					
					
Contacts Display Options					
From the Home screen, touch	Contacts .				
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Display options  to set these options:					
					
Touch  Only contacts with phones  to restrict display to contacts with phone numbers.					
					
Touch  Phone  to choose contacts for display by group.					
					
Touch an account to choose display categories.					
Touch	to save options.				
					
Linked Contacts					
Your phone can synchronize with multiple accounts, including Google, Corporate Exchange, and other email providers, plus social networking sites like Facebook, Twitter, and MySpace. When you synchronize contacts from these accounts with your phone, you may have multiple contacts for one person.					
Linking imported contact records to a phone contact allows you to see all the contact’s numbers and addresses together in one Contact entry. Linking also helps you keep your contacts updated, because any changes that your contacts make to their information in the respective accounts is automatically updated the next time you synchronize with the account.					
Note:  Phone contacts are always the primary contact for linking. You can link imported contacts to a Phone contact, but the Phone contact will always display; the imported contact will show as the linked contact.					
					
Linking contacts					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch a Phone contact (a contact with the 					
 icon) to display its information.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Link contact .					
					
Touch an imported contact record to link it to the Phone contact.					
Unlinking contacts					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch a contact to display its information.					
Touch the  Linked Contacts  field to display linked contacts.					
					
Touch a contact to unlink it from the displayed contact.					
Sending Namecards					
Sending a Namecard (vCard)					
You can send a contact namecard as a vCards via Bluetooth to other Bluetooth devices, or via Gmail as an attachment.					
Important!:  Not all Bluetooth devices will accept contacts, and not all devices support transfers of multiple contacts. Check the target device’s documentation.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch a contact to display its information.					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Send namecard via .					
					
At the prompt, choose a sending method, then follow the prompts to send the namecard:					
Bluetooth : For more information about sending via Bluetooth,  see					
					
“Bluetooth” on page 89.					
Gmail : For more information about sending Gmail,  see					
					
“Composing and Sending Gmail” on page 61.					
					
Sending multiple namecards via Bluetooth					
You can send multiple contact namecards as vCards via Bluetooth to other Bluetooth devices.					
Important!:  Not all Bluetooth devices will accept contacts, and not all devices support transfers of multiple contacts. Check the target device’s documentation.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Send via Bluetooth .					
					
Touch contacts to mark them for sending, or touch  Select all  to mark all contacts. A check mark appears in the check box for marked contacts.					
					
Follow the prompts to send the namecards. For more information about Bluetooth,  see “Bluetooth” on page 89.					
					
Backing Up Your Contacts					
Use Backup Assistant to save a copy of your Contacts to a secure web site. For more information,  see “Backup Assistant” on					
					
page 51.					
From the Home screen, touch	Contacts .				
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Backup .					
					
Follow the prompts to log in to your Backup Assistant account.					
Exporting and Importing Contacts					
You can export your contact list to an optional installed memory card, or import a list of contacts (previously exported) from a memory card.					
From the Home screen, touch	Contacts .				
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Export/Import .					
					
Touch  Import from SD card  or  Export to SD card , then follow the prompts to complete the operation.					
					
Favorites					
Mark contacts with a star to identify them as Favorites.					
Favorites display on the Favorites tab in the Phone Dialer, for fast dialing or messaging, and are indicated by the 					
 in Contacts.					
					
Creating Favorites					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch and hold on a contact, then select  Add to favorites					
					
from the pop-up menu.					
– or –					
Touch a contact to display it, then touch the 					
  Star  at the top right of the screen.					
					
My Profile					
My profile is your own contact record. You can send My profile as a vCard via Bluetooth or as an attachment via Gmail.					
Viewing My Profile					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  My profile  to display your contact information.					
					
To add information to your profile, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Edit . For more information,  see “Creating Contacts” on page 42.					
					
Sending My Profile					
You can send My Profile as a vCard via Bluetooth to other Bluetooth devices, or as an attachment to a Gmail.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  My profile  to display your contact information.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Send via .					
					
Choose a sending method,  Bluetooth  or  Gmail , then follow the prompts to send the profile.					
					
Groups					
Assign contacts to Groups to make searching for contacts faster, or to quickly call or send messages to group members.					
Accessing Groups					
} From the Home screen, touch	Contacts  ➔  Groups .				
					
Creating a New Group					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts  ➔  Groups .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Create .					
					
Touch the  Name  field to enter a Group Name.					
					
Touch  Ringtone  to choose a ringtone for calls from members of this group. Touch  Default Ringtone , or  Phone Ringtone  to select a new ringtone.					
					
Touch	to save the new group.				
					
Editing a Group					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts  ➔  Groups .					
					
Touch a Group to display it.					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Edit group .					
					
Touch the  Group Name  field to change the Group Name.					
					
Touch  Ringtone  to choose a ringtone for calls from members of this group. Touch  Default Ringtone , or  Phone Ringtone  to select a new ringtone.					
					
Touch	to save the changes.				
					
Deleting a Group					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts  ➔  Groups .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Delete .					
					
Choose  Group only  or  Group and group members .					
					
Touch a group to mark it for deletion, or touch  Select all  to mark all groups. When selected, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Touch	to delete the group(s).				
					
Adding Contacts to a Group	Removing Contacts from a Group				
					
	Tip:  You can also add a contact to a group when you create the contact. For more information,  see “Creating Contacts” on page 42.				
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts  ➔  Groups .					
					
Touch a  Group  to display it, then touch  Add member .					
					
Touch contact(s) to mark them for addition, or touch  Select all  to mark all contacts. When selected, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Touch	to add the selected contact(s).				
					
Tip:  You can also add a contact to a group when you edit the contact. For more information,  see “Updating Contacts” on page 43.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts  ➔  Groups .					
					
Touch a  Group  to display it.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Remove member .					
					
Touch contact(s) to mark them for removal, or touch  Select all  to mark all contacts. When selected, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Touch	to remove the selected contact(s).				
					
Sending a Message to Group Members					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts  ➔  Groups .					
					
Touch a  Group  to display it.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Send Message .					
					
Touch contacts to mark them as recipients for the new message, then touch	.				
					
The new message opens, with the marked contacts as recipients. Continue creating the message, as desired. For more information,  see “Creating and Sending Messages”   on page 58.					
					
History					
History displays all calls, messages, emails, IMs, and Facebook, MySpace and Twitter messages sent and received from contacts.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts  ➔  History .					
					
A list of calls, messages and emails displays, sorted by time, with most recent first.					
Touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
Delete : Erase history records.					
					
View by : Filter records by type. Choose from  Call ,  Message ,  Facebook ,  MySpace , or  Twitter .					
					
Activities					
Use Activities to view updates to Contacts from your social networking accounts, such as Facebook, Twitter or MySpace.					
					
Note:  If you haven’t updated Contacts from any accounts, the Activities tab will be blank.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch	Contacts  ➔  Activities .				
					
Speed Dials					
Speed Dials are 1-, 2-, or 3-digit shortcuts (1 to 100) you assign to contacts, to allow you to quickly call the contact.					
					
Note:  Some Speed Dials are reserved by default, and cannot be assigned: Speed Dial 1 is reserved for Voicemail.					
					
Speed Dial 97 is reserved for balance inquiries. Speed Dial 98 is reserved for minutes inquiries. Speed Dial 99 is reserved for payment inquiries. Speed Dial 100 is reserved for data call inquiries.					
					
Assigning Speed Dials					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Speed dial .					
					
A list of speed dials displays.Touch a speed dial, then touch a contact to assign the contact to the speed dial.					
Removing or Reassigning a Speed Dial					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Contacts .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Speed dial .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu , then touch an option:					
					
Remove : Touch a speed dial to remove it.					
					
Change order : Touch and hold a speed dial, then drag it to a new location in the list.					
					
Backup Assistant					
Backup Assistant is a free wireless service that saves a copy of your Contacts to a secure web site. If your phone is lost, stolen or damaged, Backup Assistant can restore your saved contacts to a new phone, wirelessly. You can schedule backups to save your information manually or automatically. Log in to your web account for full access to your contacts for viewing, printing, adding, deleting and editing.					
For more information about configuring Backup Assistant settings,  see “Backup Assistant” on page 128.					
					
Note:  Subject to specific terms of use. Results may vary based on backup schedule and other factors.					
					
See  www.verizonwireless.com/backupassistant  for more details.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch	Contacts , then touch				
					
  Menu  ➔  Backup .					
					
– or –					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync  ➔  Backup Assistant .					
					
Buddies now					
Buddies now is a quick way to create shortcuts to your favorite contacts, to make comments to your social networking sites, message, or call your contacts with one touch.					
Tip:  The Buddies now widget is available by default on the Home screen, or is available in the Samsung Widgets. For more information about placing widgets on the Home screen,  see “Widgets” on page 24.					
					
} From the Home screen, tap the plus icon to add a buddy, then select a buddy from your Contacts. The contact is added to the Buddies now widget.					
					
Section 5:  Entering Text					
					
This section describes how to enter words, letters, punctuation  and numbers when you need to enter text.					
					
Virtual QWERTY Keyboard					
Your phone uses a virtual QWERTY keyboard for text entry. Use the keyboard to enter letters, punctuation, numbers, and other characters into text entry fields or applications. Access the keyboard by touching any text entry field.					
The virtual QWERTY keyboard displays at the bottom of the screen. By default, when you rotate the phone, the screen orientation updates to display the keyboard at the bottom of the screen.					
					
Swype Keyboard					
					
Text Input Methods					
Your phone offers two text input methods:					
Swype : Swype is a new text input method that allows you to enter words by gliding your finger over the virtual QWERTY keyboard, lifting your finger between words. You can also enable Word prediction, which matches your key touches to common words.					
					
Android Keyboard : The Android Keyboard is a virtual QWERTY keyboard that allows you to enter text by touching keys on the screen. Android Keyboard includes predictive text, which matches your key touches to common words so that you can select the word to enter it 					
into your text.					
					
Changing the Input Method					
When entering text, you can select the text input method.					
} Touch and hold on a text input field, then select an input method:					
Swype					
Android keyboard					
					
Entering Text Using Swype					
Swype is a new way to enter text on touch screens. Instead of touching each key, use your finger to trace over each letter of a word. For each word, place your finger on the first letter and glide to the subsequent letters, lifting on the last letter.					
This example shows how to enter the word “this”. Put your finger down on the “t”, and without lifting, glide it to the “h”, then to the “i” then over to the “s”.					
Here are a few tips to get you started:					
Spacing is automatic : When you finish a word, just lift your finger and start the next word.					
					
Double letters : Just “scribble” on the key.					
					
Capitalization : Swype recognizes and capitalizes the first word of sentences. If you want to capitalize a word that isn’t at the beginning of a sentence, just glide above the keyboard before gliding over the next letter.					
					
Contractions : Swype recognizes most words that include an apostrophe; just swype the letters of the word, including the apostrophe.					
					
Punctuation : Tap and hold a key to view a punctuation menu and make a selection.					
					
Accented characters : Just glide through the letters of the word. Swype usually recognizes the word and correctly accents the letters.					
					
Error correction : If you make a mistake, double-tap on the word you  want to change.					
					
Configuring Swype					
Configure Swype to your preferences.					
For more information,  see “Swype” on page 132.					
					
While entering text, touch the	Swype Key  ➔  Options .				
					
Tip:  To customize predictive text, configure the User dictionary settings. For more information,  see “User dictionary” on page 133.					
					
Swype Help					
While entering text, you can get tips and help about using Swype.					
Tap the	Swype Key  to show  Tips .				
					
Tap the	Swype Key  ➔  Tutorial  for an interactive tutorial.				
					
Tap the	Swype Key  ➔  More Help  to view Help.				
					
Entering Symbols and Numbers					
Using the Swype Keyboard:					
Touch and hold on a key to enter the symbol or number at the top of the key.					
Touch and hold on a key until a menu of all characters available on that key appears, then touch a character to enter it.					
					
Touch	to switch to Symbol mode, then touch a key.				
					
Touch	➔  Shift , then touch the corresponding key.				
					
Using the Numeric Keyboard					
Switch to a Numeric Keyboard, to quickly enter numbers and mathematical operators: } Touch and hold ABC .					
From the Numeric Keyboard, you can switch to a Numeric Keyboard:					
Editing Keyboard					
The Editing Keyboard provides a quick way to move the cursor and highlight text. If the application in which you are working supports editing, you can cut, copy or paste highlighted text.					
To access the Editing Keyboard:					
} Swype from the	Swype Key  to the 				
  SYM Key .					
					
Using Swype Speech Recognition					
Enter text by speaking. Swype recognizes your speech and enters text for you.					
To use Speech recognition:					
}  Touch the 					
  Speech Recognition Key .					
					
At the  Speak now  prompt, speak the text you want to enter.					
					
} Touch and hold ABC .					
					
Entering Text Using the Android Keyboard The Android Keyboard is a custom virtual QWERTY keyboard, featuring predictive text. Input characters by tapping the on-					
screen keys with your finger, or use speech recognition.					
As you enter characters, predictive text matches your key touches to common words and displays them. Select a word from the display to insert it into your text.					
					
Configuring Android Keyboard					
Entering Upper and Lower Case Letters					
The default case is lower case (abc). Enter upper and lower case alphabet letters by touching the Shift key to toggle the case, before touching the letter key(s).					
Touch once to switch from abc to Abc mode					
Touch and hold to switch to ABC mode					
Entering Symbols and Numbers					
To enter common symbols, touch 					
 to switch to symbol mode, then touch the corresponding key.					
					
To enter less-common symbols, touch 					
 ➔ 					
 , then touch the corresponding key.					
					
Enter numbers by touching 					
, then touching the number keys.					
					
Using Android Speech Recognition					
Enter text by speaking. Android Keyboard recognizes your speech and enters text for you.					
					
Configure the Android Keyboard to your preferences.					
					
For more information,  see “Android keyboard” on page 133.					
					
Note:  Enable Speech Recognition in Android Keyboard settings. For more information,  see “Android keyboard” on page 133.					
					
					
					
					
While entering text, touch and hold	or	, then touch			
					
Android keyboard settings .					
					
Tip:  To customize predictive text, configure the User dictionary settings. For more information,  see “User dictionary” on page 133.					
					
} Touch the	Speech Recognition Key .				
					
Section 6:  Messaging					
					
This section describes how to send and receive messages, and  other features associated with messaging.					
					
Types of Messages					
Your phone supports these types of messages:					
Text messages : Send and receive simple messages containing text to other mobile phones or email addresses (also known as SMS).					
					
Multimedia messages : Send and receive text messages with pictures and/or sound to other mobile phones or email addresses (also known as MMS).					
					
Mobile IMs : Exchange Instant Messages to users of popular messaging sites.					
					
Email : Send and receive email from your email accounts, including Corporate Exchange mail.					
					
Gmail : Send and receive Gmail from your Google account.					
					
Google Talk : Chat with other Google Talk users.					
					
Note:  Messaging service availability depends on your network and service plan. Multimedia Messaging charges apply per your Calling Plan.					
					
Monthly plans are available. Higher rates apply for International Multimedia Messaging (when available). Compatible Device required. Consult Verizon Wireless for more information.					
					
Text and Multimedia Messaging					
Your phone can send and receive text and multimedia messages  to other mobile phones and to email addresses.					
					
Creating and Sending Messages					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Messaging  ➔  New message .					
					
Tap the  To  field and enter the recipient’s name, phone number or email address.					
					
Note:  As you enter a name, phone number or email address, matching contacts appear on the screen. Touch a contact to add it to the list, or continue entering characters.					
					
Tip:  If you are creating a message with the phone in portrait mode, touch  Recent  to choose a recent recipient,  Contacts  to select contacts, or 					
Group  to choose a group for the To list.					
					
Touch the  Type to compose  field, or touch  Next , and compose your message. While composing a message, touch 					
  Menu 					
for these options:					
Add subject : Add a subject field to the message and enter a subject. (This option also converts the message to MMS.)					
					
Attach : Add content to the message to convert it to MMS.					
					
Pictures : Add a picture.					
					
Capture picture : Take a new picture.					
					
Videos : Add a video.					
					
Capture video : Record a new video.					
					
Audio : Add a sound clip.					
					
Record audio : Create a new audio clip.					
					
Slideshow : Add a slideshow of pictures to this message.					
					
Add text : Select text from Contacts, Calendar, or Memo to add to the message.					
					
Insert smiley : Add a text emoticon to the message.					
					
Cancel : Discard the message.					
					
Touch	to send the message.				
					
Managing Messages					
Threaded View					
Messages you send and receive to the same contact, number or address are grouped together as a “thread”. Threaded messages allow you to see all the messages you exchanged with a contact, or other recipient, with the latest message displayed first.					
From a Home screen, touch   Messaging .					
					
Message threads display by contact, number, or address. While viewing message threads, you have these options:					
Touch and hold a thread to choose from:					
View Contact / Add to contacts : View the contact record, or save the sender/recipient’s information as a new contact, or to update an existing contact.					
					
Delete thread : Erase the entire message thread.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
Compose : Create a new message.					
					
Delete threads : Touch message threads to mark them for erasure, or touch  Select all  to mark all message threads for erasure.					
					
Search : Enter characters to search messages and recipient lists.					
					
Settings : Configure message settings.					
					
Message Settings					
Configure message settings.					
From a Home screen, touch 					
  Messaging .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  to set:					
					
Delete old messages : Touch to enable or disable automatic erasure of messages when stored message reach default limits. When disabled, the phone will prompt you to delete old messages to make room.					
					
Text message limit : Touch to set a limit for the number of text messages per thread.					
					
Multimedia message limit : Touch to set a limit for the number of multimedia messages per thread.					
					
Auto-retrieve : Touch to enable or disable automatic retrieval of MMS messages. When enabled, MMS messages download automatically. When disabled, the phone prompts to download new MMS messages.					
					
Roaming auto-retrieve : Touch to enable or disable automatic retrieval of MMS messages when in Roaming mode. When enabled, MMS messages download and display automatically. When disabled, the phone prompts you to download new MMS messages.					
					
Notifications : Touch to enable or disable alerts in the status bar.					
					
Select ringtone : Touch to select a ringtone for message alerts.					
					
Vibrate : Touch to enable or disable vibration for message alerts.					
					
Gmail					
Send and receive emails via Gmail, Google’s web-based email.					
}  From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gmail .					
					
Setting Up Your Gmail Account					
The first time you launch Gmail, your phone will prompt you to set up your Google account.					
Note:  You can use more than one Google account on your phone. To add another account, use the    Menu  ➔  Accounts  option.					
					
From the Home screen, select	Applications  ➔				
					
  Gmail .					
					
At the  Set up your Google Account  screen, touch  Next  to begin, then touch an option:					
					
Create : Follow the prompts to create a new account.					
					
Sign in : Enter your Google  Username  and  Password , then touch					
					
Sign In .					
					
The phone communicates with the Google server to set up your account and synchronize your email. When complete, your Gmail appears in the Inbox.					
Refreshing Your Gmail Account					
Refresh your account to update your phone from the Gmail servers.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gmail .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Refresh .					
					
Managing Your Gmail Account					
Use menu options to manage your Gmail.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gmail .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
Refresh : Update your phone from the Gmail servers.					
					
Compose : Create and send new Gmail.					
					
Accounts : Choose a Gmail account to display, or add a Google account.					
					
View labels : View Gmail by label.					
					
Search : Enter keywords to search mail.					
					
Settings : Configure Gmail account settings. For more information,  see “Gmail account settings” on page 61.					
					
Composing and Sending Gmail					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gmail .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Compose .					
					
Touch the  To  field to enter recipients. As you enter names or numbers, matching contacts display. Touch a contact to add it to the field.					
					
Touch the  Subject  field to enter a subject.					
					
Touch  Compose Mail  to enter the text of your email.					
					
While composing a message, touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
Send : Send the message.					
					
Add Cc/Bcc : Create Cc (copy) and Bcc (blind copy) fields to the message. After creating the fields, touch to enter recipients.					
					
Attach : Launch Gallery to select a picture to add to the message.					
					
Edit subject : Modify the email’s subject.					
					
Discard : Close the message without saving.					
					
Touch  Send  to send the message.					
Gmail account settings					
					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
  Gmail .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  for these options					
					
Refresh : Update Gmail on your phone from the Google servers.					
					
Compose : Create a new email.					
					
Accounts : View and choose from your Google account(s).					
					
View labels : View Google content by label.					
					
Search : Find Gmail items.					
					
Settings :					
					
Signature : Create a text signature to add to outgoing messages.					
					
Confirm delete : Have your phone prompt you to confirm deletions.					
					
Batch operations : Allow changes to labels on more than one conversation.					
					
Clear search history : Remove previous searches you have performed.					
					
Labels : Choose which labels are synchronized.					
					
Email notifications : When enabled, notifications for new email appears in the Notifications Panel.					
					
Select ringtone : Choose a ringtone for new email notifications.					
					
Vibrate : When enabled, the phone will vibrate for new email notifications, along with the ringtone (if a ringtone is selected.)					
					
Google Talk					
Chat with other Google Talk users.					
Email					
Send and receive email using popular email services.					
					
	Tip:  Talk requires that you have a Google account set up on your phone. For more information,  see “Setting Up Your Accounts” on page 38.				
					
Note:  Only some paid “Plus” accounts include POP access to allow this program to connect. If you are not able to sign in with your correct					
					
email address and password, you may not have a paid “Plus” account. Please launch the Web browser to access your account.					
					
} From the Home screen, select	Applications  ➔				
					
					
  Talk .					
					
Note:  If you have already set up your Google account, you are automatically logged in. If you do not have a Google account, you can touch  Create  to create a new Google account.					
					
Configuring Email Accounts					
You can configure Email for most accounts in just a few steps.					
Configuring the first email account					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Email .					
					
Touch  Email address  to enter your email address, then touch  Password  or touch  Next  to enter your password.					
					
Touch a setup option:					
Manual setup : Configure the account manually. Touch  POP3 ,  IMAP  or  Exchange , then enter the account details.					
					
Next : Connect to the server to set up the account automatically. Follow the prompts to complete set-up, then touch  Done .					
					
Tip:  For more information on setting up your email, visit the Smartphone Resource Center at 					
https://smartphones.verizonwireless.com , click on the Smartphone Support tab and select your phone.					
					
Configuring additional email accounts					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Email .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Accounts .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Add account .					
					
Touch the  Email address  field to enter your email address.					
					
Touch the  Password  field or touch  Next  to enter your password.					
					
Touch a setup option:					
Manual setup : Configure the account manually. Touch  POP3 ,  IMAP  or  Exchange , then enter the account details.					
					
Next : Connect to the server to set up the account automatically. Follow the prompts to complete set-up, then touch  Done .					
					
Composing and Sending Email					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Email .					
					
Touch and hold on an account, then touch  Compose .					
					
Touch the  To  field to enter recipients. As you enter names or numbers, matching contacts display. Touch a contact to add it to the field.					
					
Touch the  Subject  field to enter a subject.					
					
Touch the text field to enter the text of your email.					
While composing a message, touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
Add Cc/Bcc : Create Cc (copy) and Bcc (blind copy) fields to the message. After creating the fields, touch to enter recipients.					
					
Save as draft : Close the message and save it in Drafts.					
					
Add text : Add text from a Contact record, from the Calendar, or from a Memo.					
					
Touch  Attach  to add a file to the message.					
					
Touch  Send  to send the message.					
					
Managing Emails					
Combined Inbox					
Emails you receive to all accounts are presented in the combined Inbox, or you can view email accounts individually.					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Accounts .					
					
Touch an account, or touch the  Combined Inbox .					
					
Refreshing Your Email Account					
Refresh your account to update your phone from the servers.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Email .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Refresh .					
					
Email Account Settings					
Use Account settings to configure handling of your email.					
Note:  Some email accounts may have different, or additional, settings.					
					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Email .					
					
Touch an account to view it, then touch 					
  Menu  ➔					
					
Account settings .					
					
Touch fields to configure the account:					
General settings :					
					
Account name : Enter a name for the account’s display.					
					
Your name : Enter your name, to be used on emails.					
					
Email check frequency : Choose an interval for checking for email.					
					
Default account : When enabled, this account is the default account for sending email from your phone.					
					
Notification settings :					
					
Email notifications : Enable or disable alerts in the Status Bar.					
					
Select ringtone : Choose a ringtone to use for new email alerts.					
					
Vibrate : Enable or disable vibration with new email alerts.					
					
Server settings :					
					
Incoming settings : Modify incoming email server settings.					
					
Outgoing settings : Configure the SMTP server, Port and Security type, Username and Password settings.					
					
Mobile IM					
Use Mobile IM to send and receive instant messages via AIM, Windows Live, or Yahoo!.					
Note:  Create the Instant Messaging account on your PC before accessing it with your phone.					
					
Important!:  Mobile IM operates over the Verizon Wireless network only. If you use Mobile IM, any active Wi-Fi connection will be disconnected, and you will have to re-establish a connection before using Wi-Fi again.					
					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Mobile IM .					
					
Read the Terms and Conditions, then touch  Accept  to continue.					
					
Read the notice about Wi-Fi Support, then touch  Accept  to continue.					
					
Touch your IM provider, then follow the prompts to sign in. Use the provider’s on-screen functions to send and receive messages.					
					
Section 7: Web and Social Networking					
Bing					
Bing Search is a powerful search tool for locating web content via your phone, tailored for your current location.					
Note:  Bing requires that you enable location services settings to determine your location for searches. For more information,  see “My Location” on					
  page 121.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Bing .					
					
Tip:  Bing Search appears by default on the Home screen, and is also available as an Android Widget.. For information about displaying widgets on the Home screen,  see “Adding Widgets to the Home screen”   on page 24.					
					
YouTube					
View and upload YouTube videos, right from your phone.					
}  From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
YouTube .					
					
Browser					
Your phone is equipped with a full HTML Browser, which allows you to access the internet.					
} From the Home screen, select 					
  Browser .					
					
Navigating the web					
Command Keys					
Touch 					
  Back  to return to the previous page.					
					
Touch and hold 					
  Back  to display a list of recent pages.					
					
To go forward, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Forward .					
					
Touching and dragging					
Touch and drag your finger on the screen to navigate pages, and to reposition pages within the screen.					
Entering text in a field					
While browsing, touch a text field to display the virtual QWERTY keyboard to enter text.					
Zoom					
Tap the screen twice to zoom in or out.					
					
Selecting items on a page					
While browsing pages, use gestures and menus to navigate links on pages:					
Touch an item to select it.					
Touch a hyperlink to follow the link.					
Touch and hold on a hyperlink for these options:					
Open : Go to the linked page.					
					
Open in new window : Open a new window to display the linked page.					
					
Bookmark link : Add a bookmark to linked page (without loading it).					
					
Save link : Save the linked page to Download history.					
					
Share link : Send the link via Bluetooth, Email, Gmail, or Message.					
					
Copy link URL : Save the link’s URL to the clipboard.					
					
Entering a URL					
Access a website quickly by entering the URL.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Browser .					
					
Touch the  URL  field at the top of the screen, then enter the URL using the virtual QWERTY keyboard.					
					
As you enter characters, potential matches display. Continue entering characters, or touch a match to complete the URL.					
Touch  Go  to load the page.					
					
Using Browser Windows					
You can have up to eight windows open at one time, switching between windows.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Browser .					
					
To open a new window, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  New window .					
					
To switch to another open window, touch	Menu  ➔				
					
Windows . Touch a window to display it.					
					
To close a window, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Windows . Touch					
					
  Close  beside a window to close it.					
					
Using Bookmarks					
While browsing, bookmark a site to quickly access it later.					
Creating a bookmark					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Browser .					
					
Browse to the desired website, then touch 					
  Bookmarks					
					
next to the  URL  field.					
					
The new website is displayed as a thumbnail with the command  Add . Touch the bookmark to add it.					
					
At the  Add bookmark  prompt, confirm the Name and Location for the bookmark, then touch  OK  to save the					
					
bookmark.					
					
Accessing bookmarks and history					
Launch a bookmarked page, or reload recent pages.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Browser .					
					
Touch 					
  Bookmarks  next to the  URL  field.					
					
On the  Bookmarks  tab, use these options:					
					
Touch a bookmark to load the page.					
Touch and hold on a bookmark for these options:					
Open : Launch the bookmarked page.					
					
Open in new window : Open the linked page in a new window.					
					
Edit bookmark : Modify the URL.					
					
Add shortcut to Home : Create a bookmark on the Home screen.					
					
Share link : Send the link via Bluetooth, Gmail, or Messaging.					
					
Copy link URL : Save the link’s URL to the clipboard.					
					
Delete bookmark : Remove the bookmark.					
					
Set as homepage : Assign the bookmarked link as the home page.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  List view  to view bookmarks as a list.					
					
On the  Most visited  tab, use these options:					
					
Touch a page to reload it.					
Touch the star next to a page to bookmark it.					
Touch and hold on a page for these options:					
Open : Launch the web page.					
					
Open in new window : Launch the web page in a new window.					
					
Add bookmark/Remove from bookmarks : Bookmark the page, or remove the bookmark for this page.					
					
Share link : Send the page’s URL via Bluetooth, Gmail, or Messaging.					
					
Copy link URL : Copy the page’s URL to the clipboard for pasting.					
					
Remove from history : Remove the record of this page.					
					
Set as homepage : Set this page as the default first page when opening the Browser.					
					
On the  History  tab, use these options:					
					
Touch a page to load it.					
Touch the star next to a page to bookmark it.					
To clear the history, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Clear history .					
					
Touch and hold on a page for these options:					
Open : Launch the web page.					
					
Open in new window : Launch the web page in a new window.					
					
Add bookmark/Remove from bookmarks : Bookmark the page, or remove the bookmark for this page.					
					
Share link : Send the page’s URL via Bluetooth, Gmail, or Messaging.					
					
Copy link URL : Copy the page’s URL to the clipboard to paste in another location.					
					
Remove from history : Remove the record of this page.					
					
Set as homepage : Set this page as the default first page when opening the Browser.					
					
Copying Fields or Text					
Copy information from a web page to the clipboard for pasting.					
Copying text					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Browser .					
					
Browse to the desired website.					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Select text .					
					
On the web page, touch and drag over the text. When you lift your finger, the text is saved to the clipboard.					
To paste the copied text, navigate to the desired field (or to another application), then touch and hold in a text field and touch  Paste .					
					
Copying a hyperlink or URL					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Browser .					
					
Browse to the desired website.					
Touch and hold on the URL in the URL field, then choose an option from the pop-up menu:					
Share page : Send the link via Bluetooth, Gmail, or Messaging.					
					
Copy page URL : Save the link’s URL to the clipboard.					
					
Browser Menu					
While viewing a web page, touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
New window : Open a new browser window. The previous browser windows remain open in the background (use the Windows option to switch between windows).					
					
Bookmarks : Create and manage bookmarks for favorite sites.					
					
Windows : Switch between windows, or open a new window.					
					
Refresh : Update the current page’s content from the server.					
					
Forward : Move forward to a previously-viewed page.					
					
More :					
					
Add bookmark : Create a bookmark for the current page.					
					
Find on page : Search for content on the current page.					
					
Select text : Enable the text selector. Returns you to the web page, where you can drag your finger over text to select it and copy it to the clipboard.					
					
Page info : View information about the current page, including the URL.					
					
Share page : Send the current page’s URL via Bluetooth, Gmail, or Messaging.					
					
Downloads : View a list of downloads. While viewing downloads, touch 					
  Menu  for access to  Clear list  and  Cancel all downloads 					
commands.					
					
Settings : Customize the Browser (see Browser Settings).					
					
Brightness Setting : Adjust the screen brightness, if the Brightness setting is not set to Automatic.					
					
Browser Settings					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Browser .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Settings :					
					
Page content settings					
Text size : Choose a default size for web page content.					
					
Default zoom : Choose a default zoom level for web pages.					
					
Open pages in overview : When enabled, displays an overview of newly-opened pages.					
					
Text encoding : Choose a default character set for web pages.					
					
Block pop-up windows : When enabled, blocks pop-up windows.					
					
Load images : When enabled, images are automatically loaded when you visit a page. When disabled, images are indicated by a link, which you can touch to download the picture.					
					
Auto-fit pages : When enabled, the browser automatically sizes web pages to fit your phone’s display.					
					
Landscape-only display : When enabled, Browser displays all pages in the wider landscape orientation (rotate your phone counterclockwise to view pages in landscape mode).					
					
Enable JavaScript : When enabled, Browser will automatically run JavaScript scripts on pages you visit.					
					
Enable plug-ins : When enabled, Browser will automatically load and run plug-ins on pages you visit.					
					
Open in background : When enabled, new windows open behind the current window.					
					
Set home page : View and set the default first page that displays when you launch Browser.					
					
Privacy settings					
Clear cache : Delete content and databases stored on the phone.					
					
Clear history : Delete the list of previously-visited pages.					
					
Accept cookies : When enabled, allows Browser to save and read cookie information used by web pages.					
					
Clear all cookie data : Delete cookie information saved to the phone.					
					
Remember form data : When enabled, stores information you enter into forms to make future forms easier.					
					
Clear form data : Deletes saved form information.					
					
Enable location : When enabled, sites you visit can request access to your location.					
					
Clear location access : Clear location access for all web sites.					
					
Security settings					
Remember passwords : When enabled, saves usernames and passwords for sites you visit, to make future visits easier.					
					
Clear passwords : Clear all saved usernames and passwords.					
					
Show security warnings : When enabled, Browser will warn you if there is a problem with a site’s security.					
					
Advanced settings					
Website settings : View and manage settings for individual websites.					
					
Reset to default:  Clear all browser data and reset all settings to the factory defaults.					
					
Maps					
Use Bing Maps to find your current location, get directions, and other location-based information. The Bing Maps shortcut appears by default on the Home screen.					
					
Note:  You must enable location services to use Maps, and some features require Standalone or Google location services. For more information,  see “Location & security” on page 121.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Maps .					
					
Navigating the Map					
Zooming					
Double-tap on the screen to zoom in.					
Touch Zoom in or Zoom out.					
Scrolling					
Touch and drag on the screen to reposition the map in the display.					
Touch					
Touch an icon on the map to display information about the location.					
Maps Menu					
From the Home screen, touch	Maps .				
					
While viewing a map, touch	Menu  for these options:				
					
Home : Go to Bing Maps homepage.					
					
Directions : Get driving, public transport, or walking directions.					
					
List view : When search results are displayed, view the results in a list rather than icons on the map.					
					
Map type : Choose Road, Satellite, Hybrid, or Traffic maps.					
					
Favorites : View saved favorites. Touch a favorite to display it on the map.					
					
History : View recent search criteria. Touch an item to search the criteria again.					
					
More :					
					
Clear map : Remove search results from the map.					
					
Full screen : When enabled, displays the map at full-screen.					
					
Settings : Configure the map. For more informtion,  see “Maps   Settings” on page 72.					
					
About : View information about Bing Maps, including the Service Agreement and Privacy Policy, and provide Feedback.					
					
Maps Settings					
Configure Maps to your preferences.					
From the Home screen, touch	Maps .				
					
While viewing a map, touch	Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Settings				
					
for these settings:					
SafeSearch : Set the sensitivity for filtering explicit images from your search results.					
					
Daily image : When enabled, displays Bing Maps daily image when you go to the Bing Maps homepage.					
					
Search suggestions : When enabled, displays possible matches as you enter search criteria. You can then touch a match to display results.					
					
Location : When enabled, uses your location information to display search results that are close to you.					
					
Clear history : Erase recent search criteria records.					
					
Restore defaults : Reset map settings to the factory defaults.					
					
Reset : Remove recent searches, favorites, locations and changes to Bing settings.					
					
Section 8: Music					
Music Player					
Music Player plays songs from an optional installed memory  card.					
					
Playing Music					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Music Player .					
					
Music Player scans your memory card and displays your songs on the  All ,  Playlists Albums ,  Artists , or  Genres  tabs.					
					
Touch a song or playlist to begin playback.					
					
During playback, use the sound and playlist controls:					
Volume : Touch to activate on-screen volume control, then touch and drag on the scale to set volume. You can also press the Volume Key on the side of the phone to adjust playback volume.					
					
Shuffle : When enabled, songs play in random order. When disabled, songs play in the order they appear in List view.					
					
Repeat : Touch to repeat the current song, repeat all songs, or disable repeat mode.					
					
List / Now Playing : Touch  List  to switch to a list view of songs. Touch  Now Playing  to display the current song title and details.					
					
5.1 Channel Mode : When listening with optional headphones, touch to enable 5.1 Channel Mode for stereo sound.					
					
Volume					
					
Shuffle					
Channel Mode (headphones only)					
					
Repeat					
					
Playback Controls					
Playback controls :					
					
Touch 					
 to advance to the next song. Touch and hold 					
 to scan forward through the current song.					
					
Touch 					
 to go back to the previous song. Touch and hold 					
 to scan backward through the current song.					
					
Touch 					
 to pause playback. Touch 					
 to resume playback.					
					
Tip:  When you’re playing music in the background, playback controls are available in the Notification Panel. For more information,  see   “Notification Panel” on page 19.					
					
Disc view					
When you rotate the phone, you can choose Disc view to view disc artwork during playback, and control playback.					
					
To switch to Disc view, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Go to Disc view .					
					
In Disc view, you can use these controls:					
Slide your finger across the screen to scroll through songs.					
Touch a disc to play the song.					
Touch 					
 to pause playback. Touch 					
 to resume playback.					
					
Touch the arrow at the top of the screen to switch to Organizer view.					
Touch 					
  Back  to return to the default Music Player screen.					
					
Organizer view					
From Disc view, switch to Organizer view to view and select songs alphabetically, sorted by Playlist, Album, Artist, or Genre.					
					
To go to Organizer view, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Go to Disc view , then touch the arrow at the top of the screen.					
					
In Organizer view, you can use these controls:					
By default, Organizer view displays all songs. Touch  All  at the top left corner to choose songs by  Playlists ,  Albums ,  Artists , or 					
Genres .					
					
Slide your finger around the dial to scroll through songs.					
Touch a song in the center of the dial to play the song.					
Touch 					
 to pause playback. Touch 					
 to resume playback.					
					
Touch the double arrow in the dial to switch to Disc view.					
Touch 					
  Back  to return to the default Music Player screen.					
					
Creating a Playlist					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Music Player  ➔  Playlists .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Create , then touch the name field to enter a name for the playlist.					
					
Touch  Save  to save the new playlist.					
					
Adding Songs to Playlists					
Adding a single song to a playlist					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Music Player .					
					
Touch and hold on a song, then choose  Add to playlist  from the pop-up menu.					
					
Choose one of these options:					
Touch a playlist to add the selected song to the playlist.					
Touch  Create playlist  to create a new playlist and add the selected song to it.					
					
Adding multiple songs to a playlist					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
  Music Player .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Add to playlist .					
					
Touch songs to select them, or touch  Select all . When selected, a checkmark appears in the checkbox.					
					
Touch  Add  , then select a playlist, or touch  Create playlist  to create a new playlist.					
					
Setting a Song as a Ringtone					
					
You can set a song as a ringtone for all voice calls, for calls from an individual contact, or as an alarm tone.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
  Music Player .					
					
Touch and hold on a song, then touch  Set as  and choose from these options:					
					
Voice call ringtone : Set the song as the default ringtone for all incoming voice calls.					
					
Caller ringtone : Choose a contact to set the song as the ringtone for calls from the contact.					
					
Alarm tone : Set the song as the alarm ringtone for a new alarm, or for an existing alarm.					
					
Manage and Transfer Media					
The Samsung Fascinate is compatible with V CASTTM Media Manager. The desktop application, offered free by Verizon Wireless, allows you to transfer photos, music and videos between your phone and computer. Once the desktop application is installed, simply connect your phone and computer with a USB cable, and V CAST Media Manager makes it easier than ever to transfer, play and manager you media. The application also includes a media player and an array of intuitive features to help you manage and enjoy your media.					
To get started, visit  www.verizonwireless.com/vmm .					
					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody					
(Subscription, Wireless and PC Downloads)					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody® is a digital music service that lets you listen to millions of songs from thousands of artists. Discover new and old favorites in an extensive music catalog. Download V CAST Music with Rhapsody to your PC to sync tracks, albums, and playlists to your new phone, while managing your existing PC music library, all in one place.					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody is compatible with Windows 7, Vista or XP Service Pack 2, with the latest Windows updates and the latest Windows Media Player. MAC OS and Linux are not supported.					
For complete system requirements, and to download V CAST Music with Rhapsody for free, visit  www.verizonwireless.com/music .					
					
} From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody .					
					
Note:  The first time you launch VCAST Music with Rhapsody, you must agree to the Terms and Conditions. Per-song charges apply.					
					
Downloading music to your phone					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody .					
					
Browse for songs using the onscreen buttons and prompts.					
Touch the song you want to download, and use these options:					
Touch  Preview  to hear a 20 second preview of the song.					
					
Touch  Buy  to buy the song. At the  CONFIRM PURCHASE  prompt, touch  Buy This Song  to accept the terms.					
					
Touch  Download Now  to download the song now, or  Download Later  to download at a later time.					
					
Tip:  If you choose Download Later, you can continue choosing music and download all purchased tracks at one time by touching the Download button on the V CAST Music with Rhapsody home screen.					
					
At the prompt, touch  Memory Card  to save the song and the download starts.					
					
Download Music to your PC					
When you purchase music with your wireless device, you can also download a copy to your PC using the V CAST with Rhapsody software.					
On your PC, launch  V CAST Music with Rhapsody .					
					
Log in. After logging in, locate and download music files.					
Downloading a PC copy:					
Available tracks will pop up upon log-in.					
Check the boxes of songs to download.					
Select Download Tracks.					
Purchasing music:					
Browse the catalog and select tracks or albums to purchase.					
Re-enter your password.					
Confirm the purchase and the download will begin shortly.					
Adding subscription music (requires V CAST Music with Rhapsody subscription):					
Review subscription offerings.					
Drag and drop tracks to My Library, or click the Add button next to the song.					
					
Sync music from your PC to your phone					
Use V CAST Music with Rhapsody on your PC to transfer music to your phone.					
Plug a USB cable into your phone and connect it to a USB port on your PC.					
Attach your phone to the PC with a USB cable. Your phone recognizes the connection and displays 					
  USB connected  in the Annunciator Line and Notifications Panel.					
					
Pull down the Notification Panel, then touch 					
  USB connected . At the prompt, touch  Mount  to connect your phone to the PC to copy files.					
					
At the prompt on the PC, select  Manage the device using Rhapsody .					
					
Import Songs from an Audio CD					
Use V CAST Music with Rhapsody on your PC to organize tracks from your CDs. You can then transfer these tracks to your phone.					
On your PC, launch  V CAST Music with Rhapsody .					
					
Insert an audio CD into the CD-ROM drive.					
The tracks on the CD display in the window. Select tracks for import by clicking the check boxes.					
Click on the  Import CD  button to import your selections.					
					
V CAST Tones					
Preview, download and purchase ringtones and ringback tones.					
Note:  Airtime or download charges may apply for using V CAST Tones.					
					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
V CAST Tones .					
					
The first time you start V CAST Tones, you’ll be prompted to subscribe to the service. Follow the prompts to install and use V CAST Tones.					
					
Section 9: Pictures and Video					
Camera					
Use your phone’s built-in Camera to take pictures and record video.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Camera .					
					
Mode Button					
					
Camera					
					
Image Viewer					
					
Options tab					
					
Important!:  Do not take take photos of people without their permission. Do not take photos in places where cameras are not allowed. Do not take photos in places where you may interfere with another person’s privacy.					
					
Taking Pictures					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Camera .					
					
Using the display as a viewfinder, compose your picture by aiming the lens at the subject.					
Touch the screen to focus on the area you touched.					
Press the  Volume Key  to zoom in or out.					
					
To configure settings,  see “Camera Options” on page 80.					
					
To take the picture, touch the  Camera  button.					
					
After taking a picture, touch  Image Viewer  to view the picture. While viewing the picture, use these options:					
					
Touch the zoom icons to zoom incrementally, or double-tap on the picture to zoom all the way in or out.					
Touch  Delete  to erase the picture.					
					
Touch  Share  to send the picture via  AllShare ,  Bluetooth ,  Email ,  Gmail ,  Messaging , or  Picasa .					
					
Touch  Set as  to assign the picture as a contact icon, or as wallpaper.					
					
Touch 					
  Back  to return to the Camera to take more pictures.					
					
Camera Options					
Configure the camera.					
}  While in Camera mode, touch the  Options  tab to configure:					
					
Shooting mode : Choose an automatic shooting mode, from:					
					
Single shot : Take a single photo.					
					
Smile shot : Touch the Camera button to automatically focus on the subject’s face and take the picture.					
					
Panorama shot : Touch the Camera button to take a picture, then use the on-screen guideline to move the viewfinder and take the next 7 shots automatically.					
					
Beauty : Adjust the contrast to smooth facial features.					
					
Continuous : Touch and hold the Camera button to take 9 consecutive pictures.					
					
Vintage : Add a vintage effect to photos.					
					
Add me : Take one picture, then use the on-screen guideline to compose and take a second picture, to combine into one.					
					
Cartoon : Apply a cartoon effect to pictures.					
					
Action shot : Detects action to automatically take multiple pictures to create a panorama.					
					
A  Flash : Choose Off, On, or Auto flash.	Exposure value : Choose a value to set the brightness of the picture.				
					
  Settings  ➔ 					
  Camera					
					
Outdoor visibilit y: Enable to enhance screen visibility.					
					
Focus mode : Choose a type of automatic focus.					
					
Scene mode : Choose a mode to match conditions.					
					
Timer : Set a delay before taking a picture.					
					
Resolution : Choose a size for the image.					
					
White balance : Choose a setting for the light source.					
					
Effects : Apply an effect to pictures.					
					
ISO : Choose a setting for imaging sensitivity.					
					
Metering : Select a method for measuring light.					
					
Anti-Shake : Enable Anti-Shake to minimize camera.					
					
Auto contrast : Allow automatic light/dark adjustment.					
					
Blink detection : Detect a subject’s blinks and adjust the timing of the picture capture to avoid closed eyes in the shot.					
					
Image quality : Choose a quality setting for photos.					
					
Adjust : Set Contrast, Saturation, and Sharpness.					
					
  Settings  ➔ 					
  Settings					
					
Guidelines : Enable or disable an on-screen grid to aid in photo composition.					
					
Review : Enable or disable the instant review feature, to display images immediately after capture.					
					
Shutter sound : Select a tone to play when the camera’s shutter opens and closes.					
					
Reset : Set all Camera settings to the defaults.					
					
Camcorder					
Use your phone’s built-in Camcorder to record high-definition video in 720p resolution.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Camera  ➔ 					
  Mode .					
					
Mode Button					
					
Record					
					
Image Viewer					
					
Options tab					
Important!:  Do not take take videos of people without their permission. Do not take videos in places where cameras are not allowed. Do not take videos in places where you may interfere with another person’s privacy.					
					
Capturing Video					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Camera  ➔  Camcorder .					
					
Using the display as a viewfinder, compose your shot by aiming the lens at the subject.					
Press the  Volume Key  to zoom in or out.					
					
To configure settings, see  “Camcorder Options”  on page 82.					
					
To start recording, touch the  Record  button. During recording, the button changes to  Pause ; touch  Pause  to temporarily stop recording. To resume recording, touch 					
Record  again.					
					
To stop recording, touch the  Stop  button.					
					
After recording, touch  Image Viewer  to view the video. While viewing the video, use these options:					
					
Double-tap on the video to zoom all the way in or out.					
Touch  Share  to send the video via  AllShare ,  Bluetooth ,  Email ,  Gmail ,  Messaging , or  YouTube .					
					
Touch  Play  to review the video.					
					
Touch  Delete  to erase the video.					
					
Touch 					
  Back  to return to the Camcorder to record more videos.					
					
Camcorder Options					
Configure the camcorder.					
}  While in Camcorder mode, touch the  Options  tab:					
					
  Recording mode : Choose a recording mode, from:					
					
Normal : Record a video of any length.					
					
Limit for MMS : Record a video up to 1 minute long, suitable for sending in a Video message.					
					
V CAST Videos					
V CAST Videos™ is your link to video on demand, to view or download video clips that contain breaking news, sports highlights, weather and more.					
} From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
V CAST Videos .					
					
A  Flash : Choose Off or On.					
					
Exposure value : Choose a value to set the brightness.					
					
Settings  ➔ 					
  Camcorder :					
					
Outdoor visibilit y: Enable to enhance screen visibility.					
					
Timer : Set a delay before starting recording.					
					
Resolution : Choose a size for the recording.					
					
White balance : Choose a setting for the light source.					
					
Effects : Apply an effect to videos.					
					
Vidoe quality : Choose a quality setting for videos.					
					
Adjust : Set Contrast, Saturation, and Sharpness.					
					
  Settings  ➔ 					
  Settings					
					
Guidelines : Enable to display a grid to aid in video composition.					
					
Audio recording : Enable to record sound along with video.					
					
Review : Enable or disable the instant review feature, to display videos immediately after recording.					
					
Reset : Set all Camcorder settings to the defaults					
					
Tip:  Rotate the phone counterclockwise for optimal viewing.					
					
Browsing, Selecting and Playing Video Clips					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
V CAST Videos .					
					
Touch the video category of your choice, then tap selections to access video titles.					
Touch a video title to play the video clip.					
Touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
Back : Return to the previous screen.					
					
Search : Enter criteria to search for videos.					
					
Manage Subscription : Add or remove premium subscriptions.					
					
My Videos : Launch Video Player to view and manage videos downloaded and saved to your device.					
					
About : View information about the V CAST Videos application.					
					
Video Player					
Your phone’s 4-inch 800x400 Super AMOLED screen plays HD videos up to 720p, supporting H.263, H.264, MPEG4, 3GP, 3G2 (v9),and Xvid formats. Your phone is also DivX Certified® to play DivX® video up					
to HD 720p, including premium content.					
Use Video Player to view and manage videos stored on an installed memory card, or shop for new videos.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Video Player .					
					
By default, videos display by name. While viewing the list of videos, touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
Remove : Touch videos to select them for deletion, or touch Select all to delete all videos.					
					
List by : Display the list of videos by Name (default), Date, or Type.					
					
Shop : Launch V CAST Videos to purchase videos.					
					
Touch a video to play it. While playing a video, touch the screen to display or hide on-screen Forward, Pause, Backwardplayback controls.					
While playing a video touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
Share video : Send the video via AllShare, Bluetooth, Messaging, Gmail, Email, or YouTube.					
					
Shop : Launch V CAST Videos to purchase videos.					
					
Add bookmark : Place a marker in the video, to view later.					
					
Bookmarks : Display markers from the video.					
					
Via Bluetooth : Send the video via Bluetooth.					
					
More :					
					
Details : View information about the video.					
					
Settings : Choose Repeat, Brightness, Colour tone, and Outdoor Visibility settings.					
					
Gallery					
Your phone’s 4-inch 800x400 Super AMOLED screen provides high- resolution display of:					
Pictures, including JPEG, PNG, GIF, A-GIF, WBMP and BMP formats.					
HD videos up to 720p, including H.263, H.264, MPEG4, 3GP, 3G2 (v9), Xvid formats. DivX Certified® to play DivX® video up to HD 720p, including premium content					
Use Gallery to view, capture, and manage pictures and videos.					
					
Note:  You must have an optional memory card installed in your phone to take pictures or capture video. For more information, 					
see “Memory Card”   on page 12.					
					
}  From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gallery .					
					
Viewing Videos					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gallery .					
					
Touch a category, then touch a video to play it.					
While viewing a video, touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
Shop : Launch V CAST Videos to purchase videos.					
					
Via Bluetooth:  Send the video via Bluetooth.					
					
Details : View information about the video.					
					
Viewing Pictures					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gallery .					
					
Touch a category, then touch a picture to view it.					
While viewing a picture, tap on the the screen or touch					
  Menu  for options:					
					
Share : Share the selected picture via  AllShare ,  Bluetooth ,  Messaging ,  Picasa , or  Gmail .					
					
Delete : Erase the picture.					
					
More :					
					
Details : Display information about the picture.					
					
Set as : Assign the picture as a Contact icon, or as Wallpaper.					
					
Crop : Drag the edges of the crop tool to select an area of the picture, then touch  Save  to save just the selected area, removing the rest of the picture.					
					
Rotate left:  Change the orientation of the picture.					
					
Rotate right : Change the orientation of the picture.					
					
Sharing pictures and video					
Share pictures and videos via Email, AllShare, Bluetooth, Messaging, Picasa, or Gmail.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gallery .					
					
Touch a category to display thumbnails, then select items for sharing:					
To select an entire category, touch    Menu  while viewing categories, then touch the category to select all pictures in the category.					
					
To select multiple pictures or videos from a category, touch 					
  Menu  while viewing the thumbnails. Touch thumbnails to mark them for sharing, then touch 					
Share .					
					
Touch  Allshare ,  Email ,  Bluetooth ,  Messaging ,  Picasa  (for pictures only),  Gmail , or  YouTube  (for videos only) then follow the prompts.					
					
Setting a Picture as a Contact Icon					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gallery .					
					
Touch a category, then touch a picture to select it.					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Set as  ➔  Contact icon .					
					
Select a contact, or create a new contact, with the  selected picture as the contact’s icon.					
					
Setting a Picture as Wallpaper					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gallery .					
					
Touch a category, then touch a picture to select it.					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  More  ➔  Set as  ➔  Wallpaper .					
					
Use the crop tool to edit the picture, then touch  Save  to set the edited picture as the Home screen wallpaper.					
					
Section 10: Connections					
					
Your phone includes features to connect to the internet and to  other devices, via Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, VPN and Dial Up Networking. 					
Wi-Fi					
Wi-Fi is a wireless networking technology that provides access to local area networks. Use your phone’s Wi-Fi feature to:					
Access the internet for browsing, or to send or receive email.					
Access your corporate network.					
Use hotspots provided by hotels or airports while traveling.					
Wi-Fi communication requires access to an existing Wireless Access Point (WAP). WAPs can be Open (unsecured, as with most hotspots), or Secured (requiring you to provide login credentials). Your phone supports the 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi protocol.					
Configuring Wi-Fi Settings					
Configure your phone’s Wi-Fi settings. For more information,  see					
					
“Wi-Fi settings” on page 109.					
Turning Wi-Fi On or Off					
Turn your phone’s Wi-Fi service on or off. When you turn Wi-Fi service on, your phone automatically searches for available, in- range WAPs (Wireless Access Points).					
Turning Wi-Fi On					
From the Home screen, sweep your finger downward to display the Notification Panel.					
Touch  Wi-Fi  to turn Wi-Fi On.					
					
Turning Wi-Fi Off					
From the Home screen, sweep your finger downward to display the Notification Panel.					
Touch  Wi-Fi  to turn Wi-Fi Off.					
					
Scanning and Connecting to a Wi-Fi Network					
When you turn on Wi-Fi, your phone searches for available Wi-Fi connections, then displays them on screen.					
From the Home screen, sweep your finger downward to display the Notification Panel.					
Touch  Wi-Fi  to turn Wi-Fi On.					
					
When your phone completes a scan, touch a Wi-Fi network to connect. If the Wi-Fi network is open, you will be automatically connected. If the Wi-Fi network is secured, enter the password at the prompt to connect.					
Adding a Wi-Fi Network Manually					
From the Home screen, sweep your finger downward to display the Notification Panel.					
Touch  Wi-Fi  to turn Wi-Fi On.					
					
On the pop-up Wi-Fi settings menu, touch  Add Wi-Fi network , then enter these fields:					
					
Network SSID : Enter the name of the Wi-Fi Wireless Access Point.					
					
Security : Select the type of security used by the WAP.					
					
Password  or  Key : If the WAP is secured, enter the password or hex key.					
					
3G Mobile Hotspot					
Use 3G Mobile Hotspot to share your phone’s 3G internet connection with a PC or other device through Wi-Fi, using your phone as the mobile hotspot.					
					
Note:  3G Mobile Hotspot consumes battery power and uses data service.					
					
To use 3G Mobile Hotspot, you need the 3G Mobile Hotspot feature from Verizon Wireless. There is a monthly charge for the Mobile Hotspot feature, and all data used by connected devices will apply to the customer’s data allowance. Contact Verizon Wireless for more information.					
					
Configuring 3G Mobile Hotspot Settings					
Configure your phone’s 3G Mobile Hotspot settings, including your phone’s name and password, and set the visibility of your phone’s Wi-Fi hotspot.					
For more information,  see “Mobile hotspot settings” on   page 112.					
					
Activating 3G Mobile Hotspot					
Activate your phone’s 3G Mobile Hotspot application to allow other devices to use your phone’s 3G internet connection.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  3G Mobile Hotspot .					
					
Touch  3G Mobile Hotspot  to turn the service on. Read the information about 3G Mobile Hotspot, then touch  Continue  to proceed.					
					
3G Mobile Hotspot consumes battery power. Read the information about battery usage, then touch  Turn on Mobile Hotspot  to proceed.					
					
Your phone establishes a connection to the network for the mobile hotspot service.					
Activate Wi-Fi on your PC or other device, then follow the prompts on your phone and device to connect.					
					
Tip:  Your phone’s default password is your phone number. For more information,  see “Mobile hotspot settings” on page 112.					
					
When you are finished using Mobile hotspot, touch  3G Mobile Hotspot  to turn the service off.					
					
Connecting a Device via 3G Mobile Hotspot					
Use the other device’s Wi-Fi control to connect to your phone’s 3G Mobile Hotspot.					
Activate 3G Mobile Hotspot on your phone. For more information,  see “Activating 3G Mobile Hotspot” on   page 88.					
					
Activate Wi-Fi on the device, using the device’s Wi-Fi control.					
Bluetooth					
Bluetooth is a short-range wireless communications technology for exchanging information over a distance of about 30 feet.					
You don’t need to line up the devices to send information with Bluetooth. If the devices are in range, you can exchange information between them, even if they are in different rooms.					
Configuring Bluetooth Settings					
Configure your phone’s Bluetooth settings. For more information,  see “Bluetooth settings” on page 111.					
					
Scan for Wi-Fi hotspots, and select your phone from the					
					
list. To find your phone’s name,  see “Mobile hotspot   settings” on page 112.					
					
At the prompt, enter your phone’s 3G Mobile Hotspot password. By default, the password is your phone’s telephone number. For more information,  see “Mobile   hotspot settings” on page 112.					
					
Note:  Bluetooth profiles are specifications for services supported by individual devices. For a list of profiles your phone supports, 					
see   “Bluetooth profiles” on page 110.					
					
Turning Bluetooth On or Off					
Turning Bluetooth On					
From the Home screen, sweep your finger downward to display the Notification Panel.					
Touch  Bluetooth  to turn Bluetooth on.					
					
Turning Bluetooth Off					
From the Home screen, sweep your finger downward to display the Notification Panel.					
Touch  Bluetooth  to turn Bluetooth off.					
					
Pairing with a Bluetooth Device					
					
Search for a Bluetooth device and pair with it, to exchange information between your phone and the device.					
Note:  After pairing, your phone and the target device will recognize each other and exchange information without having to enter a passcode or PIN.					
					
When paired, the 					
  Bluetooth Paired  icon displays in the Annunciator Line.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
Wireless & networks .					
					
Touch  Bluetooth  to turn on Bluetooth.					
					
Activate the target device’s discoverable mode.					
Touch  Bluetooth settings  ➔  Scan devices .					
					
From the list of scanned devices, touch the target device, then follow the prompts to complete the pairing:					
If the target device requires a PIN, enter a PIN for the target device and touch OK. When prompted, enter the PIN on the target device.					
					
Tip:  Some devices use a default passcode of 0000. Refer to the target device’s user manual for more information.					
					
If the device allows automatic or smart pairing, your phone will attempt to pair with the phone automatically. Follow the prompts on your phone and the target device to complete the pairing.					
VPN					
You can use your phone’s VPN (Virtual Private Network) feature to connect to VPNs.					
Configuring VPN Settings					
Configure your phone’s VPN settings. For more information,  see					
					
“VPN settings” on page 113.					
Adding a VPN					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks  ➔  VPN settings .					
					
Touch  Add VPN  to set up a connection to a VPN, using the following settings:					
					
Add PPTP VPN : Set up a connection to a VPN with Point-to-Point tunneling protocol.					
					
Add L2TP VPN : Set up a connection to a VPN with Layer 2 tunneling protocol.					
					
Add L2TP/IPSec PSK VPN : Set up a connection to a VPN with pre- shared key-based Layer 2/IPsec tunneling protocol.					
					
Add L2TP/IPSec CRT VPN : Set up a connection to a VPN with Certificate-based Layer 2/IPsec tunneling protocol.					
					
Dial Up Networking					
You can use Dial Up Networking to allow your phone to act as a modem to access the internet with other devices.					
Enabling Dial Up Networking					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks.					
Touch  Dial up networking  to enable or disable dial-up networking. When enabled, a check appears in the checkbox.					
					
Memory Card					
Your phone supports removable microSD™ or microSDHC™ memory cards of up to 32GB capacity, for storage of music, pictures, videos, and other files.					
Installing and Removing a Memory Card					
For more information about installing and removing a memory card,  see “Memory Card” on page 12.					
					
Important!:  To prevent damage to information stored on the memory card, unmount the card before removing it from the phone.					
					
Formatting a Memory Card					
Formatting erases all content from the memory card and prepares it for use with your phone.					
Formatting a Memory Card using Your Phone					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  SD card & phone storage					
					
Touch  Unmount SD card .					
					
After unmounting the SD card, touch  Format SD card .					
					
Follow the prompts to confirm the formatting of the card.					
Formatting a Memory Card using Your Computer					
For best playback of songs stored on a microSD™ or microSDHC™ memory card, use the PC file system FAT32. Consult your computer and/or memory card reader documentation for information about formatting memory cards.					
Transferring Files to a Memory Card					
Transferring files using the Media Sync USB setting					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  USB Settings  ➔  USB Mode , then select  Media Sync .					
					
Attach your phone to the computer with a USB cable. Your phone recognizes the connection and displays  Media Sync: connected 					
in the Annunciator Line and Notifications Panel.					
					
Transfer files to the memory card. When finished, you can disconnect the USB cable.					
					
Transferring files using the Mass Storage USB setting					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  USB Settings  ➔  USB Mode , then select  Mass Storage .					
					
Attach your phone to the computer with a USB cable. Your phone recognizes the connection and displays  USB connected  in the Annunciator Line and Notifications Panel.					
					
Display the  Notifications Panel , then touch  USB connected . At the prompt, touch  Mount  to enable copying of files between your computer and the memory card.					
					
At the prompt on the computer, select a transfer method:					
Open device to view files using Windows Explorer. Drag and drop files from the PC to the memory card installed in your phone.					
Manage the device using Rhapsody. For more information,  see “V   CAST Music with Rhapsody” on page 76.					
					
Transfer music files to the memory card. When finished, you can disconnect the USB cable.					
					
Section 11: Applications and Widgets					
Android  Market					
					
Browse for new Android applications, games or downloads for your phone. You’ll need to have a Google account set up on your phone to download a new application.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Market .					
					
The first time you open Market, read the Terms of Service, then touch  Accept  to continue.					
					
Browse for items to install or upgrade downloads:					
Apps : New applications.					
					
Games : New games.					
					
Downloads : Display requested downloads, plus available updates to applications installed on your phone.					
					
3G Mobile Hotspot					
Use 3G Mobile Hotspot to share your phone’s mobile internet connection with a PC through Wi-Fi, using your phone as the mobile hotspot. For more information,  see “3G Mobile Hotspot”   on page 88.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  3G Mobile Hotspot .					
					
AllShare					
Use AllShare to synchronize your mobile phone with your TV via Wi-Fi to stream content to your TV.					
Note:  You must activate Wi-Fi to use this application. For more information,  For more information, refer to “Wi-Fi” on page 86.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
AllShare .					
					
Bing					
Bing Search is a powerful search tool for locating web content via your phone, tailored for your current location. For more information,  see “Bing” on page 66.					
					
Note:  Bing requires that you enable location services settings to determine your location for searches. For more information,  see “My Location”					
  on page 121.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Bing .					
					
Blockbuster					
Browse and search the entire mobile catalog of Blockbuster On Demand titles, plus access other Blockbuster content.					
} From the Home screen, touch	Applications  ➔				
					
Blockbuster .					
					
Browser					
Your phone includes a full HTML Browser, to access the internet. For more information about using Browser,  see “Browser” on  					
page 66.					
} From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Browser .					
					
Buddies now					
Buddies now is a quick way to create shortcuts to your favorite contacts, to make comments to your social networking sites, message, or call your contacts with one touch.					
For more information,  see “Buddies now” on page 52.					
					
Tip:  The Buddies now widget is available by default on the Home screen, or is available in the Samsung Widgets. For more information about placing widgets on the Home screen,  see “Widgets” on page 24.					
					
Calculator					
Use your phone’s Calculator to perform mathmatical calculations.					
} From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Calculator .					
					
Calendar					
Record events and appointments to manage your schedule.					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Calendar .					
Touch a tab to choose a calendar view:					
					
Month : Display the current month and scroll to other months.					
					
Week : Display the current week, and scroll to other weeks.					
					
Day : Display today’s schedule, and scroll to other days.					
					
List : Display events in a chronological list.					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  for these options:					
					
Create : Add a new event to the calendar.					
					
Go to : Display a specific date.					
					
Today : Display today’s events.					
					
Delete : Delete an event.					
					
Settings : Customize the calendar.					
Customizing the Calendar					
					
From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
  Calendar .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  to configure these settings:					
					
Calendars : View all your calendars.					
					
Calendar sync : Synchronize calendars from multiple accounts.					
					
Default view : Set the default view when Calendar opens.					
					
Day views : Choose a view for a day’s events.					
					
First day of week : Choose a day to begin each week.					
					
Hide declined events : Enable or disable display of events.					
					
Sending Events via Bluetooth					
Send events as vCalendar files to other Bluetooth devices.					
From the Home screen, select	Applications  ➔				
					
  Calendar .					
					
Touch an event to display its details.					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Send via .					
					
Follow the prompts to select a paired device, or pair with a new device. For more information,  see “Pairing with a   Bluetooth Device” on page 90.					
					
Camera					
Take pictures and record video with your phone’s built in Camera. For more information,  see “Camera” on page 79.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Camera .					
					
Car Cradle					
The Car Cradle application puts mobility features right at your fingertips, to allow one-touch access to maps, search, and navigation features while connected to an optional car cradle.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Car Cradle .					
					
Clock					
The Clock application includes these features:					
Alarm clock : Create alarms to go off once, or to repeat on specific days.					
					
World clock : Display the time and date in any time zone.					
					
Stopwatch : Record lap times.					
					
Timer : Measure elapsed time.					
					
}  From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Clock .					
					
City ID					
Subscribe to City ID to display city and state for incoming calls, and to look up city and state information for phone numbers.					
}  From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
City ID .					
					
Daily Briefing					
Use the Daily Briefing widget to monitor the weather, financial information, news, and your schedule, in one convenient application.					
Tip:  Daily Briefing appears by default on the Home screen, and is available as a Samsung Widget. For information about displaying widgets on the Home screen,  see “Adding Widgets to the Home screen” on page 24.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Daily Briefing .					
					
The first time you launch Daily Briefing, touch 					
  Setup					
					
to configure your preferences:					
AccuWeather.com :					
					
Select city : Choose cities for weather display on the Home screen.					
					
Widget auto refresh : Choose a time interval for automatic refreshing of weather information, or choose None. When the setting is None, touch the refresh icon on the widget to update weather information.					
					
Widget auto scroll : If you have selected more than one city, the widget will alternate display of information from each of your citiies.					
					
Unit : Select Celsius or Fahrenheit for temperature displays.					
					
Yahoo Finance :					
					
Select stock : Choose stock(s) to display on the Home screen.					
					
Widget auto refresh : Choose a time interval for automatic refreshing of stock information, or choose None. When the setting is None, touch the refresh icon on the widget to update stock information.					
					
Widget auto scroll : If you have selected more than one stock, the widget will alternate display of information for each stock.					
					
AP Mobile News :					
					
Widget auto refresh : Choose a time interval for automatic refreshing of news items, or choose None. When the setting is None, touch the refresh icon on the widget to update news items.					
					
Widget auto scroll : When enabled, news items will automatically  alternate inthe display.					
					
Desk Cradle					
The Desk Cradle application gives you one-touch access to the Alarms, Voice Search, Gallery, Daily Briefing and Music Player applications while connected to an optional desk cradle.					
} From the Home screen, touch	Applications  ➔				
  Desk Cradle .					
					
Email					
Send and receive email using popular email services. For more information,  see “Email” on page 62.					
					
} From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
Email .					
					
					
Feeds and Updates					
Use the Feeds and Updates widget to monitor the weather, financial information, news, and your schedule, in one convenient application.					
Tip:  Feeds and Updates appears by default on the Home screen, and is available as a Samsung Widget. For information about displaying widgets on the Home screen,  see “Adding Widgets to the Home screen”   on page 24.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Daily Briefing .					
					
Gmail					
Send and receive emails via Gmail, Google’s web-based email. For more information,  see “Gmail” on page 60.					
					
} From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Gmail .					
					
Kindle					
Use the Amazon KindleTM application to download books for reading, right on your phone.					
Note:  You must be registered with Amazon to use the Kindle application.					
					
Gallery					
Use Gallery to view, capture, and manage pictures and videos. For more information,  For more information, refer to “Gallery” on  					
page 84.					
}  From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Gallery .					
					
} From the Home screen, touch	Applications  ➔				
					
Kindle .					
					
Memo					
Create and manage text memos, and send memos via Bluetooth to paired Bluetooth devices.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Memo .					
					
Note:  You can send a memo via Bluetooth. After saving a memo, touch and hold on the Memo to launch Bluetooth. For more information,  see   “Bluetooth” on page 89.					
					
Music Player					
Play music files from an installed memory card. For more information,  see “Music Player” on page 73.					
					
}  From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Music Player .					
					
My Files					
Find, view and manage files stored on an installed memory card. If the file is associated with an application on your phone, you can launch the file in the application.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  My Files .					
					
Tap a folder and scroll down or up until you locate a file.					
Touch a file to launch it in the associated application (if the file is associated with an application).					
While browsing files, use these controls:					
Touch  Up  to go back up to a higher directory.					
					
Touch  Home  to go back to the root directory.					
					
Touch    Menu  for these options:					
					
Share : Upload the file via AllShare, Bluetooth, Messaging, Picasa, Gmail, or YouTube.					
					
Create folder : Create a new folder for storing files.					
					
Delete : Erase selected file(s).					
					
View by : Display files as a List, as a List and details, or as Thumbnails.					
					
List by : Sort files by Time, Type, Name, or Size.					
					
More : Move, Copy, Rename files, set Bluetooth visibility for file(s), or change settings for My Files.					
					
My Verizon Mobile					
View details and manage your Verizon Wireless account.					
					
Note:  No airtime or minute charges apply when accessing My Verizon Mobile.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  My Verizon Mobile .					
					
NFS Shift					
Play the popular Need For Speed: Shift game, right on your phone.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  NFS Shift .					
					
Settings					
Configure your phone to your preferences. For more information,  see “Settings” on page 109.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Settings .					
					
Skype Mobile					
Use Skype mobileTM on your phone for unlimited Skype-to-Skype calls and IM to anywhere in the world. For more information, please visit  www.verizonwireless.com/skype .					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔ 					
  Skype mobile TM and follow the on-screen instructions.					
					
Task Manager					
View and manage active applications on your phone. For more information,  see “Task Manager” on page 11.					
					
}  From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Task Manager .					
					
Talk					
Use Google Talk to chat with other Google Talk users. For more information,  see “Google Talk” on page 62.					
					
}  From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Talk .					
					
Tetris					
Play the popular Need For Speed: Shift game, right on your phone.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Tetris .					
					
ThinkFree Office					
ThinkFree Office Mobile for AndroidTM is a Microsoft Office®- compatible office suite, that provides a central place for managing your documents on and off line.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  ThinkFree Office .					
					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody					
(Subscription, Wireless and PC Downloads)					
Browse and download songs from the V CAST with Rhapsody catalog. For more information,  see “V CAST Music with Rhapsody” on					
  page 76.					
					
}  From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody .					
					
V CAST Tones					
Preview, download and purchase ringtones and ringback tones. For more information,  For more information, refer to “V CAST  					
Tones” on page 78.					
					
Note:  Airtime or download charges may apply for using V CAST Tones.					
					
					
					
} From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
V CAST Tones .					
					
V CAST Videos					
Browse and download videos from the V CAST library. For more information,  see “V CAST Videos” on page 82.					
					
}  From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
V CAST Videos .					
					
Video Player					
View and manage videos stored on an optional installed memory card, or shop for new videos.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
Video Player .					
					
Voice Recorder					
Record your voice or other sounds, and share recordings via Bluetooth, Messaging, or Gmail.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Recorder .					
					
Voice Search					
Voice Search offers voice-activated Google searches.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Search ..					
					
Voice Search uses your location to improve search results and offer other services. Touch  Agree  to allow location- based searches, or 					
Disagree  to disallow.					
					
At the  Speak now  prompt, speak your search criteria slowly and clearly. Google searches for the information and displays results.					
					
Voice mail					
All unanswered calls to your phone are sent to voice mail, even if your phone is turned off, so you’ll want to set up your voice mail and personal greeting as soon as you activate your phone. For more information,  see “Voicemail” on page 37.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Voicemail .					
					
VZ Navigator					
Use VZ Navigator® to find, share and navigate to millions of locations, avoid traffic and drive or walk with ease.					
					
Note:  VZ Navigator requires service activation. Contact Verizon Wireless for more information.					
					
}  From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  VZ Navigator .					
					
The first time you start VZ Navigator, you’ll be prompted to subscribe to the service. Download and install the application, and read and agree to the terms of service to use VZ Navigator.					
					
Voice Commands					
Voice Commands is advanced speech recognition software that recognizes your spoken commands to dial phone numbers, create messages, and launch phone features such as Contacts, Calendar and My Music.					
To use Voice Commands, speak naturally into your phone, at a distance of 3-12 inches. There is no need to “train” Voice Commands, it is designed to recognize natural speech.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
Note:  At each step, Voice Commands displays a list of available commands. If Voice Commands does not recognize your command, it will prompt you to confirm.					
					
Call <Name or #>					
Place a call by speaking a contact name or telephone number.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
At the audio prompt “ Please say a command ”, say “ Call ”, followed by:					
					
“<  A Contact Name >”, to call the default telephone number for a contact. Or, say “Call”, followed by the type of number label.					
					
“< Telephone Number >” to dial phone number.					
					
“ Voicemail ” to access voicemail.					
					
“ Last Number ” to redial the last number.					
					
Follow the prompts to confirm your selection and place the call.					
					
Tip:  Touch    Menu  ➔  Info  at any time to display helpful tips for using Voice Commands.					
					
Help					
Display helpful information for using Voice Commands.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
At the audio prompt “ Please say a command ”, say “ Help ”.					
					
Redial					
Place a call to the last number you dialed.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
At the audio prompt “ Please say a command ”, say “ Redial ”.					
					
Send <Msg Type>					
Create a new message by speaking the type of message and the recipient(s).					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
At the audio prompt “ Please say a command ”, say “ Send ”, followed by “ Text ”, “ Picture ” or “ Voice ”.					
					
At the prompt, say the contact name, telephone number, or contact group.					
The new message opens, with the To: field populated with your selection(s). Continue creating the message. For more information,  see “Messaging” on page 57.					
					
Go To <Menu>					
Access an application by speaking the application name.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
At the audio prompt “ Please say a command ”, say “ Go to ”, followed by the name of a menu item, for example, “ Bing ”, “					
Phone “, “ Messaging “, “ Calendar ”, “ Settings  “, “ Browser “, “ My Files “or “ Music Player “.					
					
Contacts <Name>					
Access a contact record by speaking the name of the contact.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
At the audio prompt “ Please say a command ”, say “ Contacts ”, followed by a command:					
					
Call : Calls the contact’s default number.					
					
Create New : Create a new contact.					
					
Modify : Open a contact record for modification.					
					
Erase : Delete a contact.					
					
Play <Playlist Name>					
Launch My Music and start playback of a saved playlist.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
At the audio prompt “ Please say a command ”, say “ Play ”, followed by the name of a stored playlist.					
					
Check <Item>					
Access device information by speaking the command.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
At the audio prompt “ Please say a command ”, say “ Check ”, followed by a command:					
					
Status : Displays and announces all phone status indicators.					
					
Voicemail : Displays and announces the number of new voicemail messages.					
					
Messages : Displays and announces the number of new Text, Picture and Voice messages.					
					
Missed Calls : Displays the missed call log.					
					
Time : Displays and announces the current time.					
					
Signal Strength : Displays and announces the current 1x signal strength level.					
					
Battery : Displays and announces the current battery level.					
					
Volume : Displays and announces the current volume level.					
					
Balance : Calls the service number for account balance information.					
					
Minutes : Calls the service number for minute balance information.					
					
Payment : Calls the service number for payment information.					
					
My Number : Displays and announces your phone number.					
					
Search					
Launch Bing Search.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
At the audio prompt “ Please say a command ” say “ Search ”.					
					
Tip:  Bing Search is also available as a Widget, to search right from the Home screen. For information about displaying widgets on the Home screen,  see “Adding Widgets to the Home screen” on page 24.					
					
My Verizon					
Check your Verizon Wireless account status by voice command.					
Note:  This features launches the browser to your account page and requires a data plan and is subject to Verizon Wireless data coverage.					
					
From the Home screen, touch	Applications  ➔				
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
At the audio prompt “ Please say a command ”, say “ My Verizon ”.					
					
Voice Commands  Settings					
					
Configure the Voice Commands feature of your phone.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Voice Commands .					
					
touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  Select a setting for customization:					
					
Confirmation : Control when the system asks you to confirm a name or number. Select  Automatic ,  Always Confirm , or  Never Confirm					
.					
					
Sensitivity : Control the sensitivity of command recognition. Choose					
					
Most Sensitive ,  Recommended  or  Least Sensitive .					
					
Adaptation:  Train Voice Commands to recognize your voice. Choose  Adapt Voice , then follow the audio prompts.					
					
Prompts					
Mode : control the level of audio assistance. Choose from Prompts, Readout+Alerts, Readout, or Tones Only.					
					
Timeout : Control how long the Voice Commands system listens for a command from you. Choose  5 seconds  or  10 seconds .					
					
About : View information about Voice Commands.					
					
Weather Clock					
The Weather Clock widget displays an analog clock on the Home screen, with weather updates from WeatherBug.					
Tip:  Weather Clock is also available as a Samsung Widget, to display time and weather information right on the Home screen. For information about displaying widgets on the Home screen,  see “Adding Widgets to   the Home screen” on page 24.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch  Weather Clock  to select a city for weather updates.					
					
Weather Clock					
					
Write & Go					
Capture ideas as a text note, then choose a format for sending via Gmail, saving to the Calendar or as a memo, or use it to update your Facebook, MySpace, or Twitter status.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Write & Go .					
					
Compose a text note, then use the following options:					
Send message : Create a new text message containing the note.					
					
Update status : Log in to post the note to update your status on Facebook, MySpace, or Twitter.					
					
Save : Save the note as an event in Calendar, or as a Memo.					
					
YouTube					
View and upload YouTube videos, right from your phone. For more information,  see “YouTube” on page 66.					
					
}  From the Home screen, select 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
YouTube .					
					
Section 12:  Settings					
					
This section explains Settings for customizing your phone.					
Accessing Settings					
}  From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings .					
					
– or –					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Applications  ➔					
					
  Settings .					
					
Wireless & networks					
Control your phone’s wireless connections.					
Wi-Fi					
Your phone supports Wi-Fi b/g/n.					
Turning Wi-Fi On or Off					
Turn your phone’s Wi-Fi service on or off. When you turn Wi-Fi service on, your phone automatically searches for available, in- range Wireless Access Points (WAPs).					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks .					
					
Touch  Wi-Fi  to turn Wi-Fi On or Off. When on, a check appears in the checkbox.					
					
Wi-Fi settings					
Set up and manage wireless access points.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks  ➔  Wi-Fi settings .					
					
Touch settings to configure:					
Wi-Fi : Touch to turn Wi-Fi On or Off. When on, a check appears in the checkbox.					
					
Network notification : When enabled, notifies you when an open network is available.					
					
Add Wi-Fi network : Manually add a new Wi-Fi connection.					
					
Advanced Wi-Fi settings					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks  ➔  Wi-Fi settings .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Advanced .					
					
Wi-Fi sleep policy : Specify when to switch from Wi-Fi to mobile data for data communications. Touch to choose from  When screen turns off					
,  Never when plugged in , or  Never .					
					
MAC address : View your phone’s MAC address, needed for connecting to some secured networks (not configurable).					
					
Proxy : Touch to enter a proxy number.					
					
Port : Touch to enter a port number.					
					
IP Settings					
Use static IP : Touch to use a static IP. When enabled, a check mark appears in the checkbox.					
					
IP address : When using a static IP, enter the IP address.					
					
Gateway : When using a static IP, enter the Gateway.					
					
Netmask : When using a static IP, enter the Netmask.					
					
DNS 1 : When using a static IP, enter the DNS 1 value.					
					
DNS 2 : When using a static IP, enter the DNS 2 value.					
					
Bluetooth					
Your phone supports Bluetooth® 3.0.					
Bluetooth profiles					
Bluetooth profiles are specifications for services supported by individual devices. Profiles improve the ability of different devices to work together. Your phone supports these Bluetooth profiles:					
Headset : HSP v1.1 profile supports use of a compatible Bluetooth headset for mono voice.					
					
Handsfree : HFP v1.5 profile supports Bluetooth headsets, and may also support other installed compatible Bluetooth devices with speakerphone capabilities.					
					
Stereo : A2DP v1.0, AVRCP v1.0, GAVDP and AVDTP profiles support delivery of stereo audio to a compatible Bluetooth device.					
					
Phonebook Access : PBAP v1.0 profile allows sharing of multiple name card and phonebook entries with a compatible Bluetooth device.					
					
Object Push : OPP v1.1 profile allows sending and receiving of contact name cards (vCard 2.1) and calendar events (vCalendar) between devices.					
					
Note:  This device does not support all Bluetooth profiles.					
					
For vehicle/accessory compatibility, visit  www.verizonwireless.com/   bluetoothchart .					
					
Turning Bluetooth On or Off					
Turn your device’s Bluetooth service On or Off. For more information about using Bluetooth to exchange information with other Bluetooth devices, see  see “Bluetooth” on page 89.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks .					
					
Touch  Bluetooth  to turn Bluetooth On or Off. When On, a check appears in the checkbox.					
					
Bluetooth settings					
Use Bluetooth settings to manage Bluetooth connections, set your device’s name, and control your device’s visibility to other devices.					
Note:  Bluetooth must be turned On to access some settings.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks  ➔  Bluetooth settings .					
					
Touch a setting to configure Bluetooth:					
Bluetooth : Touch to turn Bluetooth On or Off. When On, a check appears in the checkbox.					
					
Device Name : Your device’s default name appears on screen. Touch to change the device name. Available when Bluetooth is turned On.					
					
Visible : Control your phone’s visibility to other devices’ Bluetooth searches. Touch to turn On or Off. Available when Bluetooth is turned On.					
					
Scan devices : Touch to scan for nearby discoverable devices. After searching, touch a device to pair with it. For more information, see  see “Pairing with a Bluetooth Device” on page 90.					
					
Mobile hotspot settings					
Use Mobile hotspot settings to share your phone’s 3G internet connection with a PC or other device through Wi-Fi. For more information about using your phone as a mobile hotspot,  see “3G   Mobile Hotspot” on page 88.					
					
Note:  To use 3G Mobile hotspot, you need the 3G Mobile Hotspot feature					
					
Tip:  By default, your phone’s Mobile hotspot password is your phone number. To change the password, touch Password, then enter a new password.					
					
Turning Mobile hotspot On or Off					
Note:  Using your phone as a mobile hotspot consumes battery power and increases your data usage. Roaming while using your phone as a mobile hotspot will incur extra data charges.					
					
from Verizon Wireless. Contact Verizon Wireless for more information.					
					
3G Mobile Hotspot consumes battery power and uses data service. While the 3G Mobile hotspot is active, your phone’s applications will use the 3G Mobile hotspot data feature allowance.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks  ➔  Mobile hotspot settings .					
					
Touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  to configure:					
					
3G Mobile Hotspot : Turn Mobile hotspot On or Off. When On, a check appears in the check box.					
					
Name : View and edit your phone’s name, used for Mobile hotspot connections.					
					
Hide my device : Touch to hide your device from other devices searching for a hotspot. When enabled, a check appears in the check box.					
					
Password : Touch to require a password to access your phone as a hotspot, and set a password. When enabled, a checkmark appears in the check box.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks  ➔  Mobile hotspot settings .					
					
Touch  3G Mobile Hotspot  to turn Mobile hotspot On or Off. When on, a check appears in the checkbox.					
					
Note:  For more information about using 3G Mobile Hotspot,  see “3G Mobile   Hotspot” on page 88.					
					
Airplane mode					
When airplane mode is activated, all your phone’s wireless connections are disabled, and you cannot make or receive calls or messages or connect to networks. While in airplane mode, you can use other features of your phone, such as playing music, watching videos, or other applications.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks .					
					
Touch  Airplane mode  to activate or deactivate airplane mode. When activated, a check appears in the checkbox.					
					
VPN settings					
Set up and manage Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). For more information about using VPNs, see  see “VPN” on page 90.					
					
Add VPN					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks  ➔  VPN settings .					
					
Touch  Add VPN  to set up a connection to a VPN, using the following settings:					
					
Add PPTP VPN : Set up a connection to a VPN with Point-to-Point tunneling protocol.					
					
Add L2TP VPN : Set up a connection to a VPN with Layer 2 tunneling protocol.					
					
Add L2TP/IPSec PSK VPN : Set up a connection to a VPN with pre- shared key-based Layer 2/IPsec tunneling protocol.					
					
Add L2TP/IPSec CRT VPN : Set up a connection to a VPN with Certificate-based Layer 2/IPsec tunneling protocol.					
					
Mobile networks					
Set options for network selection and data services while roaming.					
Important!:  Depending on your service plan, changes you make to Mobile Networks settings may incur extra charges. Consult Verizon Wireless for more information.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks  ➔  Mobile networks .					
					
Set these options:					
Data roaming : Enable or disable connections to data services when your device is roaming on another network. For more information about roaming,  see “Roaming” on page 10.					
					
System select : Change the roaming mode for CDMA networks.					
					
Home Only : Restrict your phone to your home network’s coverage area. When outside the coverage area, your phone will not roam, and call functions and other wireless features will not be available.					
					
Automatic : Allow your phone to automatically acquire service based on default settings, using the Verizon Wireless network and the networks of roaming partners.					
					
Dial up networking					
Connect to data services using dial-up networking.					
Note:  You cannot use other data services while Dial Up Networking is enabled.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Wireless & networks.					
Touch  Dial up networking  to enable or disable dial-up networking. When enabled, a check appears in the checkbox.					
					
Call settings  Voicemail  Voicemail service					
					
By default, calls you do not answer are sent to your carrier’s voicemail system. If you subscribe to other voicemail services, you can set the default service.					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  Call settings  ➔  Voicemail service .					
					
Voicemail					
By default, the speed dial number for calling your carrier’s voicemail is *86. You can modify this to set a special speed dial number for accessing voicemail.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  Call settings  ➔  Voicemail .					
					
Use the touch keypad to modify the default voicemail number.					
Other call settings					
Ignore with message					
Create messages to use when rejecting incoming calls. For more information,  see “Ignoring a call with a message” on page 35.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  Call settings  ➔  Ignore with message .					
					
Touch  Create .					
					
Enter the message text, then touch  Save .					
					
Note:  To erase messages, touch     Menu  ➔  Delete .					
					
Auto retry					
When enabled, your phone will automatically re-attempt a call when it encounters a network busy signal.					
From the Home screen, touch	Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  Call settings				
					
Touch  Auto retry  to enable or disable automatic call retry. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
DTMF Tones					
Set the length of DTMF (Dual Tone Multiple Frequency) tones that your phone sends. DTMF tones are used as input by some automated call systems.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  Call settings  ➔  DTMF tones .					
					
Touch  Normal  or  Long .					
					
TTY Mode					
When enabled, TTY Mode allows your phone to work with a TTY					
Sound & display  Sound settings  Phone vibrate					
					
When enabled, your phone vibrates to alert you to incoming calls, as well as playing the call ringtone.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display .					
					
Touch  Phone vibrate  to enable or disable vibrate mode. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
device attached to the Headset Jack. Before using your phone					
					
with a TTY device, you’ll need to enable TTY Mode.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  Call settings  ➔  TTY mode .					
					
Touch  TTY Off ,  TTY Full ,  TTY HCO , or  TTY VCO .					
					
Voice privacy					
When enabled, Voice privacy encrypts your voice calls for enhanced privacy.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  Call settings .					
					
Touch  Voice privacy  to enable or disable voice privacy. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Note:  The Phone vibrate setting is independent of other call sounds settings. For example, if you have Silent mode enabled with Phone vibrate, your phone won’t play a ringtone, but will vibrate for an incoming call.					
					
Silent mode					
Temporarily silence all the sounds your phone makes except for media playback and alarms.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display .					
					
Touch  Silent mode  to enable or disable silent mode. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Ringer volume					
Set the volume level for incoming call and notification ringtones.					
Phone ringtone					
Choose a default ringtone for all incoming calls.					
					
	Note:  You can also set  Ringer volume  from the Home screen by pressing the				
					
Volume Key .					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display  ➔  Ringer volume .					
					
Touch and drag the slider to set  Incoming call volume .					
					
Touch and drag the slider to set  Notification volume .					
					
Touch  OK  to save your setting.					
					
System volume					
Choose the master volume level for touch feedback and the power on/off sounds.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display  ➔  System volume .					
					
Touch and drag the slider to set the volume level.					
Touch  OK  to save your setting.					
					
Tip:  You can also set songs as ringtones for all calls, or for a selected contact. For more information,  see “Setting a Song as a Ringtone” on					
  page 75.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display  ➔  Phone ringtone .					
					
Touch a ringtone to hear a sample and select it.					
Touch  OK  to save the setting.					
					
Notification ringtone					
Select a default ringtone for message, alarm, and other notifications.					
Tip:  You can also set songs as alarm ringtones. For more information,  see					
					
“Setting a Song as a Ringtone” on page 75.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display  ➔  Notification ringtone .					
					
Touch a ringtone to hear a sample and select it.					
Touch  OK  to save the setting.					
					
Audible touch tones					
When enabled, tones play for when you dial numbers on the Phone Dialer.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display .					
					
Touch  Audible touch tones  to enable or disable tones. When  enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Audible selection					
When enabled, tones play when you touch the screen for selections (other than the Phone Dialer).					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display .					
					
Touch  Audible selection  to enable or disable tones. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Haptic feedback					
When enabled, the phone vibrates to indicate screen touches and other interactions.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display .					
					
Touch  Haptic feedback  to enable or disable vibration. When  enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
SD card notifications					
When enabled, the phone plays sounds for memory card-related notifications.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display .					
					
Touch  SD card notifications  to enable or disable sounds. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Media volume					
Set the default volume for playback of music and videos.					
Note:  You can set  Media volume  during playback by pressing the  Volume Key .					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display  ➔  Media volume .					
					
Touch and drag the slider to set  Media volume , then touch					
					
OK  to save the setting.					
					
Emergency Tone					
You can set your phone to play an alert tone or vibrate during an emergency call (for example, calls to 911).					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display  ➔  Emergency tone .					
					
Touch  Alert  or  Vibrate , or touch  Off  for no emergency tone.					
					
Display settings					
Orientation					
Enable or disable automatic rotation of the screen when you turn the phone clockwise or counterclockwise.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display .					
					
Touch  Orientation  to enable or disable automatic screen  orientation. When enabled, a check appears in the box.					
					
Animation					
Set the level of animations for transitions from one window to another.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display  ➔  Animation .					
					
Touch  No animation ,  Some animations , or  All animations .					
					
Brightness					
Set the default screen brightness.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display  ➔  Brightness .					
					
Touch and drag the slider to set the brightness, or touch to enable  Automatic brightness adjustment .					
					
Touch  OK  to save the setting.					
					
Screen timeout					
Set the length of delay between the last key press or screen touch and the automatic screen timeout (dim and lock).					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display  ➔  Screen timeout .					
					
Touch a setting to select it.					
Unlock screen					
Choose the unlock screen for unlocking your phone.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display  ➔  Unlock screen .					
					
Touch an option to select it:					
Glass unlock : Slide your finger across the screen to unlock.					
					
Puzzle unlock : Touch and drag a puzzle piece into place to unlock.					
					
Power saving mode					
When enabled, your phone will automatically analyze the screen and adjust the brightness to conserve battery power.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Sound & display .					
					
Touch  Power saving mode  to enable or disable the mode. When enabled, a check appears in the check box.					
					
Location & security					
Verizon Wireless values your privacy. Because of this, your phone					
VZW location services					
Enable or disable location service from Verizon Wireless.					
					
is defaulted to only acquire your location when you dial 911. To					
					
use Location-Based Services, you must first enable location  services on your phone.					
					
My Location					
E911					
E911 location service is standard on all mobile phones, to allow sharing of your GPS location with emergency personnel when you make a call to emergency services (such as 911). This setting is not configurable.					
}  From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security  ➔  E911 .					
					
Note:  VZW location services must be enabled to use some applications.					
					
Important!:  By selecting  VZW location services , you are enabling Verizon Wireless and third-party authenticated and validated location- enabled services access to certain location information available through this network or device.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  VZW location services  to enable or disable Verizon Wireless location services. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Standalone GPS services					
Enable or disable location service from Standalone GPS services.					
Google location services					
Enable or disable location services from Google location services.					
					
	Note:  Standalone location services must be enabled to use some applications.				
					
Note:  Google location services must be enabled to use some applications.					
					
Important!:  By selecting  Standalone GPS services , you are allowing access to all location information by any third party through web access or any software or peripheral components you choose to install, download, add or attach to the device or any other means.					
					
Enabling this functionality could pose certain risks to users of this device.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  Standalone GPS services  to enable or disable Standalone GPS services. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Important!:  By selecting  Google location services , you are allowing access to all location information by Google through web access or any software or peripheral components you choose to install, download, add or attach to the device or any other means.					
					
Enabling this functionality could pose certain risks to users of this device.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  Google location services  to enable or disable Google location services. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Screen unlock pattern					
A screen unlock pattern is a touch gesture you create and use to unlock your phone. For more information about using the lock  and unlock features,  see “Securing Your Phone” on page 13.					
					
Set unlock pattern/Change unlock pattern					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  Set unlock pattern  or  Change unlock pattern .					
					
Follow the prompts to create or change your screen unlock pattern.					
Require pattern					
Enable or disable the use of a screen unlock pattern.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  Require pattern  to enable or disable the use of your unlock pattern. When enabled, a check mark appears in  the check box.					
					
Use visible pattern					
When enabled, your screen pattern will display on screen as you draw it. The pattern will display in green (as shown at left) when you draw the correct pattern, or red when you draw the pattern incorrectly.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  Use visible pattern  to enable or disable visible patterns. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Note:  After creating your personal screen unlock pattern, you must enable it in the  Require pattern  setting to have the phone require it for unlocking.					
					
Use tactile feedback					
When enabled, the phone will vibrate as you draw your unlock pattern on the screen.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  Use tactile feedback  to enable or disable tactile feedback. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Passwords					
Visible passwords					
When enabled, password characters will display briefly as you touch them while entering passwords.					
From the Home screen, touch	Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔				
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  Visible passwords  to enable or disable brief displays of password characters. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Credential storage					
Use secure credentials					
You can install credentials from an installed memory card, and use the Credential storage settings to allow applications to access the secure certificates and other credentials.					
Note:  You must have installed encrypted certificates from a memory card to use this feature.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  Use secure credentials  to enable or disable. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Install from SD card					
Install encrypted certificates from an installed memory card.					
Note:  You must have installed a memory card containing encrypted certificates to use this feature.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  Install from SD card , then choose a certificate and follow the prompts to install.					
					
Set password					
Set or change a password to protect credentials.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Applications					
You can download and install applications from Android Market, or create applications using the Android SDK and install them on your phone. Use Applications settings to manage applications on your phone.					
					
Touch  Set password , then follow the prompts.					
					
Clear storage					
Clear stored credentials and reset the password.					
					
Note:  This setting only appears if you have installed encrypted certificates.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Location & security .					
					
Touch  Clear storage  to clear stored credentials and reset the password.					
					
Warning!:  Because this device can be configured with system software not provided by or supported by Google or any other company, end- users operate these devices at their own risk.					
					
Unknown sources					
When enabled, allows installation of applications from sources other than the Android Market.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Applications .					
					
Touch  Unknown sources  to enable or disable the setting. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Manage applications					
Manage and remove applications from your phone.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Applications  ➔  Manage applications .					
					
Touch an application to view and update information about the application, including memory usage, default settings and permissions.					
Touch 					
  Back  to return to Applications settings.					
					
Running services					
View and control services running on your phone.					
Warning!:  Not all services can be stopped, and stopping services may have undesirable consequences on the application or Android System.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Applications  ➔  Running services .					
					
To stop a service, touch the service, then touch  Stop  at the confirmation prompt.					
					
Development					
Set options for application development.					
USB debugging					
When enabled, allows debugging when the phone is attached to a PC by a USB cable.					
Note:  This setting is used for development purposes.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Applications  ➔  Development .					
					
Touch  USB debugging  to enable or disable the setting. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Stay awake					
When enabled, the screen will not go to sleep (lock) while connected to a PC via USB cable. This can be useful when using some applications, such as 3G Mobile Hotspot, because the phone will disconnect a Wi-Fi or data connection when the screen locks.					
					
Note:  This setting is used for development purposes.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Applications  ➔  Development .					
					
Touch  Stay awake  to enable or disable the setting. When  enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Allow mock locations					
This setting is used by developers when developing location- based applications.					
					
Note:  This setting is used for development purposes.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Applications  ➔  Development .					
					
Touch  Allow mock locations  to enable or disable the setting. When enabled, a check mark appears in the box.					
					
Accounts & sync					
Set up and manage accounts, including your Google and Backup Assistant accounts.					
General sync settings					
Background data					
When enabled, all accounts can sync, send, and receive data at any time, in the background.					
Important!:  Disabling background data can extend battery life and lower data use. Some applications may still use the background data connection, even if this setting is disabled.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync .					
					
Touch  Background data  to enable or disable the setting.  When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Auto-sync					
When enabled, all accounts sync data at any time, automatically.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync .					
					
Touch  Auto-sync  to enable or disable the setting. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Backup Assistant					
Backup Assistant is a free wireless service that saves a copy of your Contacts to a secure web site. If your phone is lost, stolen or damaged, Backup Assistant can restore your saved contacts to a new phone, wirelessly. You can schedule backups to save your information manually or automatically. Log in to your web account for full access to your contacts for viewing, printing, adding, deleting and editing.					
Note:  Subject to specific terms of use. Results may vary based on backup schedule and other factors.					
					
See  www.verizonwireless.com/backupassistant  for more details.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync  ➔  Backup Assistant .					
					
Configure these settings:					
Touch  Auto-Sync  to enable or disable automatic synchronization of contacts with Backup Assistant.					
					
Touch  Sync Time  to set a time for synchronization of contacts, if Auto-Sync is disabled.					
					
To back up contacts now, touch  Backup Now .					
					
Manage accounts					
Use Manage accounts to set up and configure your accounts.					
Note:  Available settings depend on the type of account. Not all settings are available for all accounts.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync .					
					
Under  Manage accounts , touch the account to modify its settings.					
					
Tip:  For more information about managing accounts,  see “Setting Up Your   Accounts” on page 38.					
					
Adding an account					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync .					
					
Under  Manage accounts , touch  Add account  and follow the prompts to enter your credentials and set up the account.					
					
Tip:  For more information about adding accounts,  see “Setting Up Your   Accounts” on page 38.					
					
	Removing an account				
Important!:  Removing an account also deletes all of its messages, contacts and other data from the phone.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accounts & sync .					
					
Touch an account to display its settings.					
Touch  Remove account , then touch  Remove  at the prompt to remove the account and delete all its messages, contacts and other data.					
					
Privacy					
Use Privacy settings to manage use of personal information by  your phone.					
					
Location					
Use my location					
When enabled, your phone’s GPS location information will be used for Google search results and other Google services.					
Note:  Some Google applications require this setting to be enabled.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Privacy .					
					
Touch  Use my location  to enable or disable the setting. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
					
Personal Data					
Factory data reset					
Use Factory data reset to return your phone to its factory defaults. This setting erases all data from your phone, including your Google or other email account settings, system and application data and settings, and downloaded applications. It will not erase current system software and bundled applications, or files stored on an optional installed memory card, such as music or photos.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Privacy .					
					
Touch  Factory data reset , then follow the prompts to perform the reset.					
					
SD card & phone storage					
Manage the use of memory resources in your phone’s internal memory, and on an optional installed memory card.					
External SD card					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  SD card & phone storage .					
					
View  Total space  and  Available space  memory usage on an installed memory card (not user-configurable).					
					
Touch  Unmount SD card  to prepare the memory card for safe removal or formatting. For more information,  see   “Removing a Memory Card” on page 12.					
					
Touch  Format SD card  to erase the memory card and prepare it for use with your phone. For more information,  see “Formatting a Memory Card” on page 92.					
					
Internal phone storage					
View memory usage for your phone’s internal memory. Your phone contains 2GB internal memory.					
Note:  This setting cannot be configured.					
					
} From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  SD card & phone storage .					
					
USB Settings					
Configure how your phone is identified when you attach it to a  computer with a USB cable.					
					
USB Mode					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔  USB settings .					
					
Touch  USB mode  to choose a setting:					
					
Mass Storage : When connected, your phone is treated as a mass storage device for transferring information.					
					
Media Sync : When connected, your phone will synchronize with media applications on your computer.					
					
Search					
Use Search settings to define searchable areas on your phone for the Quick Search Box, available by touching the Search Key.					
Quick Search Box					
Searchable items					
Choose phone features to be included in Quick Search searches.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Search  ➔  Searchable items .					
					
Touch items to enable or disable searching. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box.					
Contacts : Names of contacts.					
					
Browser : Bookmarks and web history.					
					
Apps : Names of applications.					
					
YouTube : YouTube videos.					
					
Voicemail : Visual Voice Mails received in your voice mail box.					
					
Kindle : Titles and authors of your books.					
					
Music Player : Artists, albums and track names from your music library.					
					
Touch 					
  Back  to return to Search settings.					
					
Clear search shortcuts					
When you search and choose a search result, the search result is saved as a search shortcut. This setting clears recent searches.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Search .					
					
Touch  Clear search shortcuts .  Language & keyboard  Select locale					
					
Set the language used by your phone’s screens.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Language & keyboard  ➔  Select locale .					
					
Touch a language/locale from the list.					
Text settings					
Configure text entry options to your preferences.					
Swype					
Configure Swype settings. Swype is a new way to enter text by gliding your finger over the characters on the keyboard. For more information,  see “Entering Text Using Swype” on page 54.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Language & keyboard  ➔  Swype .					
					
Touch items to configure the setting. Settings include:					
Preferences :					
					
Language : Choose US English or Español.					
					
Word Prediction : When enabled, suggests possible matching words as you enter text.					
					
Audio Feedback : When enabled, plays sounds as you enter text.					
					
Vibrate on keypress : When enabled, the phone vibrates on text entry.					
					
Enable Tip Indicator : When enabled, displays a flashing indicator for quick help as you enter text.					
					
Swype Advanced settings :					
					
Auto-spacing : When enabled, inserts spaces automatically when you pause entering text.					
					
Auto-capitalization : When enabled, automatically capitalizes the first letter of the first word in a sentence.					
					
Display Trace : Choose how long the trace of your Swype entries display.					
					
Word Choice Window : Select how often word predictions display during text entry.					
					
Speed vs. Accuracy : Set the sensitivity of Swype text recognition.					
					
Help :					
					
Swype Help : View the Swype User Manual.					
					
Tutorial : View a tutorial for learning how to Swype.					
					
About :					
					
Version : View the current Swype software version.					
					
Android keyboard					
Configure Android keyboard settings. For more information about entering text with the Android keyboard,  see “Entering Text Using					
  the Android Keyboard” on page 56.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Language & keyboard  ➔  Android keyboard .					
					
Touch items to enable or disable the setting. Settings include:					
Vibrate on keypress : When enabled, the phone vibrates for each key press.					
					
Sound on keypress : When enabled, a sound plays for each key press.					
					
Auto-capitalization : When enabled, automatically capitalizes the first letter of the first word in a sentence.					
					
Voice input : Voice Input is an experimental feature using Google’s networked speed recognition. When enabled, the Voice input key appears on the Android keyboard. To use Voice input, touch the Voice input key, or slide your finger over the keyboard.					
					
Word suggestion settings :					
					
Quick fixes : When enabled, corrects common mistakes.					
					
Show suggestions : When enabled, displays suggested words while entering text.					
					
Auto-complete : When enabled, touching the spacebar or a punctuation character automatically inserts the highlighted suggested 					
word.					
					
User dictionary					
When you enter text, the predictive text features of Swype and Android keyboard suggest words matching your key touches. If you find that predictive text often predicts the wrong word, or if you have special words that you enter often, add them to the User dictionary.					
Add and manage words in your user dictionary.					
To add a word, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Add .					
					
To edit a word, touch the word, then select  Edit .					
					
To delete a word, touch the word, then select  Delete .					
					
Accessibility					
Accessibility services are special features to make using the phone easier for those with certain physical disabilities. Use the Accessibility settings to activate these services.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accessibility .					
					
Touch  Accessibility  to activate or deactivate accessibility services. When activated, a check appears in the box.					
					
Accessibility services					
Enable or disable accessibility services.					
					
Note:  You must activate the  Accessibility services  setting before enabling services.					
					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Accessibility .					
					
Touch a service to enable or disable the service. When enabled, a check mark appears in the check box:					
TalkBack : When enabled, recites menu options, application titles, contacts, and other items when scrolling and making selections.					
					
SoundBack : When enabled, plays tones for touch actions.					
					
KickBack : When enabled, vibrates for touch actions.					
					
Text-to-speech					
Text-to-speech provides audible readout of text, for example, the contents of text messages, and the Caller ID for incoming calls.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
Text-to-speech .					
					
Touch a setting to configure:					
Listen to an example : Play a sample of speech synthesis (available if voice data is installed).					
					
Install voice data : Download and install the speech synthesis data needed to activate Text-to-speech from Android Market (free).					
					
Always use my settings : When enabled, settings you make override the application’s default settings.					
					
Speak incoming CallerID : When enabled, reads out the CallerID for incoming calls.					
					
Default Settings : Configure settings to your preferences. When Always use my settings is enabled, these settings override the application’s default settings.					
					
Speech rate : Set the speed at which the text is spoken.					
					
Language : Set the language voice for spoken text.					
					
Date & time					
By default, your phone receives date and time information from the wireless network. When you are outside network coverage, you may want to set date and time information manually using the Date & time settings.					
From the Home screen, touch	Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔				
					
Date & time .					
					
Touch a setting to configure:					
Automatic : Touch to enable or disable automatic date and time updates from the wireless network. When enabled, a check appears in the check box.					
					
Set date : Enter the current date (only available when the Automatic setting is disabled).					
					
Select time zone : Choose your local time zone (only available when the Automatic setting is disabled).					
					
Set time : Enter the current time (only available when the Automatic setting is disabled).					
					
Use 24-hour format : Set the format for time displays.					
					
Select date format : Set the format for date displays.					
					
About phone					
View information about your phone, including status, legal information, hardware and software versions, and a tutorial.					
From the Home screen, touch 					
  Menu  ➔  Settings  ➔					
					
About phone .					
					
Touch items to view details:					
System updates : Check availability and install updates to your phone.					
					
Status : View Battery status, My phone number, MIN, PRL version, ERI version, MEID, Network, Signal strength, Service state, Roaming, Mobile network state, Wi-Fi MAC address, Bluetooth address, and Up time.					
					
Battery use : Display the processes and applications that are currently running. Touch an item to view details.					
					
Legal information : Display open source licenses and Google info.					
					
System tutorial : View a tutorial to help you learn how to use your phone. Follow the prompts to move through the tutorial topics.					
					
Hardware version : Display the hardware version of your phone.					
					
Model number : Display your phone’s model number.					
					
Firmware version : Display the firmware version of your phone.					
					
Baseband version : Display the baseband version of your phone.					
					
Kernel version : Display the kernel version of your phone.					
					
Build number : Display your phone’s build number.					
					
Section 13:  Health and Safety Information					
					
This section outlines the safety precautions associated with using your phone. These safety precautions should be followed to  safely use your phone.					
Health and Safety Information  Exposure to Radio Fr equency (RF) Signals  Certification Information (SAR)					
					
Your wireless phone is a radio transmitter and receiver. It is designed and manufactured not to exceed the exposure limits for radio frequency (RF) energy set by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) of the U.S. government.					
These FCC exposure limits are derived from the recommendations of two expert organizations, the National Counsel on Radiation Protection and Measurement (NCRP) and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).					
In both cases, the recommendations were developed by scientific and engineering experts drawn from industry, government, and academia after extensive reviews of the scientific literature related to the biological effects of RF energy.					
The exposure limit set by the FCC for wireless mobile phones employs a unit of measurement known as the Specific Absorption Rate (SAR). The SAR is a measure of the rate of					
absorption of RF energy by the human body expressed in units of watts per kilogram (W/kg). The FCC requires wireless phones to comply with a safety limit of 1.6 watts per kilogram (1.6 W/kg).					
The FCC exposure limit incorporates a substantial margin of safety to give additional protection to the public and to account for any variations in measurements.					
SAR tests are conducted using standard operating positions accepted by the FCC with the phone transmitting at its highest certified power level in all tested frequency bands. Although the SAR is determined at the highest certified power level, the actual SAR level of the phone while operating can be well below the maximum value. This is because the phone is designed to operate at multiple power levels so as to use only the power required to reach the network. In general, the closer you are to a wireless base station antenna, the lower the power output.					
Before a new model phone is available for sale to the public, it must be tested and certified to the FCC that it does not exceed the exposure limit established by the FCC. Tests for each model phone are performed in positions and locations (e.g. at the ear and worn on the body) as required by the FCC.					
					
For body worn operation, this phone has been tested and meets FCC RF exposure guidelines when used with an accessory that contains no metal and that positions the handset a minimum of					
1.5 cm from the body.					
Use of other accessories may not ensure compliance with FCC RF exposure guidelines.					
The FCC has granted an Equipment Authorization for this mobile phone with all reported SAR levels evaluated as in compliance with the FCC RF exposure guidelines. The maximum SAR values for this model phone as reported to the FCC are:					
Head: 0.57 W/Kg.					
Body-worn: 0.52 W/Kg.					
SAR information on this and other model phones can be viewed online at  http://www.fcc.gov/oet/ea . To find information that pertains to a particular model phone, this site uses the phone FCC ID number which is usually printed somewhere on the case of the phone.					
					
Sometimes it may be necessary to remove the battery pack to find the number. Once you have the FCC ID number for a particular phone, follow the instructions on the website and it should provide values for typical or maximum SAR for a particular phone. Additional product specific SAR information can also be obtained at  www.fcc.gov/cgb/sar.					
					
Please Note the Following Information When Using Your Handset					
WARNING REGARDING DISPLAY					
The display on your handset is made of glass or acrylic and could break if your handset is dropped or if it receives significant impact. Do not use if screen is broken or cracked as this could cause injury to you.					
WARRANTY DISCLAIMER: PROPER USE OF A TOUCH SCREEN HANDSET					
If your handset has a touchscreen display, please note that a touchscreen responds best to a light touch from the pad of your finger or a non-metallic stylus. Using excessive force or a metallic object when pressing on the touchscreen may damage the tempered glass surface and void the warranty. For more information, please refer to the “Standard Limited Warranty” on  page 156.					
					
Samsung Mobile Products and Recycling Samsung cares for the environment and encourages its customers to recycle Samsung mobile phones and genuine					
Samsung accessories.					
					
Go to:  http://mobile.samsungusa.com/recycling/index.jsp  or  1-800-822-8837 for more information.					
					
UL Certified Travel Adapter					
The Travel Adapter for this phone has met applicable UL safety requirements. Please adhere to the following safety instructions per UL guidelines.					
FAILURE TO FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS OUTLINED MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS PERSONAL INJURY AND POSSIBLE PROPERTY DAMAGE.					
IMPORTANT SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS - SAVE THESE INSTRUCTIONS.					
DANGER - TO REDUCE THE RISK OF FIRE OR ELECTRIC SHOCK, CAREFULLY FOLLOW THESE INSTRUCTIONS.					
FOR CONNECTION TO A SUPPLY NOT IN NORTH AMERICA, USE AN ATTACHMENT PLUG ADAPTOR OF THE PROPER CONFIGURATION FOR THE POWER OUTLET. THIS POWER UNIT IS INTENDED TO BE CORRECTLY ORIENTATED IN A VERTICAL OR HORIZONTAL OR FLOOR MOUNT POSITION.					
Consumer Information on Wireless Phones					
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has published a series of Questions and Answers for consumers relating to radio frequency (RF) exposure from wireless phones. The FDA publication includes the following information:					
What kinds of phones are the subject of this update?					
"The term wireless phone refers here to hand-held wireless phones with built-in antennas, often called ""cell,"" ""mobile,"" or ""PCS"" phones. These types of wireless phones can expose the user to measurable radio frequency energy (RF) because of the short distance between the phone and the user's head. These RF exposures are limited by Federal Communications Commission safety guidelines that were developed with the advice of FDA and other federal health and safety agencies."					
"When the phone is located at greater distances from the user, the exposure to RF is drastically lower because a person's RF exposure decreases rapidly with increasing distance from the source. The so-called ""cordless phones,"" which have a base unit connected to the telephone wiring in a house, typically operate at far lower power levels, and thus produce RF exposures well within the FCC's compliance limits."					
Do wireless phones pose a health hazard?					
The available scientific evidence does not show that any health problems are associated with using wireless phones. There is no proof, however, that wireless phones are absolutely safe.					
Wireless phones emit low levels of radio frequency energy (RF) in the microwave range while being used. They also emit very low levels of RF when in the stand-by mode. Whereas high levels of RF can produce health effects (by heating tissue), exposure to					
					
low level RF that does not produce heating effects causes no known adverse health effects. Many studies of low level RF exposures have not found any biological effects. Some studies have suggested that some biological effects may occur, but such findings have not been confirmed by additional research. In some cases, other researchers have had difficulty in reproducing those studies, or in determining the reasons for inconsistent results.					
What is FDA's role concerning the safety of wireless phones?					
Under the law, FDA does not review the safety of radiation- emitting consumer products such as wireless phones before they can be sold, as it does with new drugs or medical devices.					
However, the agency has authority to take action if wireless phones are shown to emit radio frequency energy (RF) at a level that is hazardous to the user. In such a case, FDA could require the manufacturers of wireless phones to notify users of the health hazard and to repair, replace or recall the phones so that the hazard no longer exists.					
Although the existing scientific data do not justify FDA regulatory actions, FDA has urged the wireless phone industry to take a number of steps, including the following:					
Support needed research into possible biological effects of RF of the type emitted by wireless phones;					
Design wireless phones in a way that minimizes any RF exposure to the user that is not necessary for device function; and					
Cooperate in providing users of wireless phones with the best possible information on possible effects of wireless phone use on human health.					
FDA belongs to an interagency working group of the federal agencies that have responsibility for different aspects of RF safety to ensure coordinated efforts at the federal level. The following agencies belong to this working group:					
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health					
Environmental Protection Agency					
Federal Communications Commission					
Occupational Safety and Health Administration					
National Telecommunications and Information Administration					
The National Institutes of Health participates in some interagency working group activities, as well.					
FDA shares regulatory responsibilities for wireless phones with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). All phones that are sold in the United States must comply with FCC safety guidelines that limit RF exposure. FCC relies on FDA and other health agencies for safety questions about wireless phones.					
					
FCC also regulates the base stations that the wireless phone networks rely upon. While these base stations operate at higher power than do the wireless phones themselves, the RF exposures that people get from these base stations are typically thousands of times lower than those they can get from wireless phones.					
Base stations are thus not the primary subject of the safety questions discussed in this document.					
What are the results of the research done already?					
The research done thus far has produced conflicting results, and many studies have suffered from flaws in their research methods. Animal experiments investigating the effects of radio frequency energy (RF) exposures characteristic of wireless phones have yielded conflicting results that often cannot be repeated in other laboratories. A few animal studies, however, have suggested that low levels of RF could accelerate the development of cancer in laboratory animals.					
However, many of the studies that showed increased tumor development used animals that had been genetically engineered or treated with cancer-causing chemicals so as to be pre- disposed to develop cancer in absence of RF exposure. Other studies exposed the animals to RF for up to 22 hours per day. These conditions are not similar to the conditions under which					
people use wireless phones, so we don't know with certainty what the results of such studies mean for human health.					
Three large epidemiology studies have been published since December 2000. Between them, the studies investigated any possible association between the use of wireless phones and primary brain cancer, glioma, meningioma, or acoustic neuroma, tumors of the brain or salivary gland, leukemia, or other cancers. None of the studies demonstrated the existence of any harmful health effects from wireless phones RF exposures.					
However, none of the studies can answer questions about long- term exposures, since the average period of phone use in these studies was around three years.					
What research is needed to decide whether RF exposure from wireless phones poses a health risk?					
A combination of laboratory studies and epidemiological studies of people actually using wireless phones would provide some of the data that are needed. Lifetime animal exposure studies could be completed in a few years.					
However, very large numbers of animals would be needed to provide reliable proof of a cancer promoting effect if one exists. Epidemiological studies can provide data that is directly applicable to human populations, but ten or more years' follow- up may be needed to provide answers about some health effects, such as cancer.					
					
This is because the interval between the time of exposure to a cancer-causing agent and the time tumors develop - if they do - may be many, many years. The interpretation of epidemiological studies is hampered by difficulties in measuring actual RF exposure during day-to-day use of wireless phones. Many factors affect this measurement, such as the angle at which the phone is held, or which model of phone is used.					
What is FDA doing to find out more about the possible health effects of wireless phone RF?					
FDA is working with the U.S. National Toxicology Program and with groups of investigators around the world to ensure that high priority animal studies are conducted to address important questions about the effects of exposure to radio frequency energy (RF). FDA has been a leading participant in the World Health Organization international Electromagnetic Fields (EMF) Project since its inception in 1996.					
An influential result of this work has been the development of a detailed agenda of research needs that has driven the establishment of new research programs around the world. The Project has also helped develop a series of public information documents on EMF issues.					
FDA and Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association (CTIA) have a formal Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) to do research on wireless phone safety.					
FDA provides the scientific oversight, obtaining input from experts in government, industry, and academic organizations.					
CTIA-funded research is conducted through contracts to independent investigators. The initial research will include both laboratory studies and studies of wireless phone users. The CRADA will also include a broad assessment of additional research needs in the context of the latest research developments around the world.					
What steps can I take to reduce my exposure to radio frequency energy from my wireless phone?					
If there is a risk from these products - and at this point we do not know that there is - it is probably very small. But if you are concerned about avoiding even potential risks, you can take a few simple steps to minimize your exposure to radio frequency energy (RF).					
Since time is a key factor in how much exposure a person receives, reducing the amount of time spent using a wireless phone will reduce RF exposure.					
If you must conduct extended conversations by wireless phone every day, you could place more distance between your body and the source of the RF, since the exposure level drops off dramatically with distance. For example, you could use a headset and carry the wireless phone away from your body or use a wireless phone connected to a remote antenna.					
					
Again, the scientific data do not demonstrate that wireless phones are harmful. But if you are concerned about the RF exposure from these products, you can use measures like those described above to reduce your RF exposure from wireless phone use.					
What about children using wireless phones?					
The scientific evidence does not show a danger to users of wireless phones, including children and teenagers. If you want to take steps to lower exposure to radio frequency energy (RF), the measures described above would apply to children and teenagers using wireless phones. Reducing the time of wireless phone use and increasing the distance between the user and the RF source will reduce RF exposure.					
Some groups sponsored by other national governments have advised that children be discouraged from using wireless phones at all. For example, the government in the United Kingdom distributed leaflets containing such a recommendation in December 2000.					
They noted that no evidence exists that using a wireless phone causes brain tumors or other ill effects. Their recommendation to limit wireless phone use by children was strictly precautionary; it was not based on scientific evidence that any health hazard exists.					
Do hands-free kits for wireless phones reduce risks from exposure to RF emissions?					
Since there are no known risks from exposure to RF emissions from wireless phones, there is no reason to believe that hands- free kits reduce risks. Hands-free kits can be used with wireless phones for convenience and comfort. These systems reduce the absorption of RF energy in the head because the phone, which is the source of the RF emissions, will not be placed against the head. On the other hand, if the phone is mounted against the waist or other part of the body during use, then that part of the body will absorb more RF energy. Wireless phones marketed in the U.S. are required to meet safety requirements regardless of whether they are used against the head or against the body.					
Either configuration should result in compliance with the safety limit.					
Do wireless phone accessories that claim to shield the head from RF radiation work?					
Since there are no known risks from exposure to RF emissions from wireless phones, there is no reason to believe that accessories that claim to shield the head from those emissions reduce risks. Some products that claim to shield the user from RF absorption use special phone cases, while others involve nothing more than a metallic accessory attached to the phone.					
					
"Studies have shown that these products generally do not work as advertised. Unlike ""hand-free"" kits, these so-called ""shields"" may interfere with proper operation of the phone. The phone may be forced to boost its power to compensate, leading to an increase in RF absorption. In February 2002, the Federal trade Commission (FTC) charged two companies that sold devices that claimed to protect wireless phone users from radiation with making false and unsubstantiated claims."					
According to FTC, these defendants lacked a reasonable basis to substantiate their claim.					
What about wireless phone interference with medical equipment?					
Radio frequency energy (RF) from wireless phones can interact with some electronic devices. For this reason, FDA helped develop a detailed test method to measure electromagnetic interference (EMI) of implanted cardiac pacemakers and defibrillators from wireless telephones. This test method is now part of a standard sponsored by the Association for the Advancement of Medical instrumentation (AAMI). The final draft, a joint effort by FDA, medical device manufacturers, and many other groups, was completed in late 2000. This standard will allow manufacturers to ensure that cardiac pacemakers and defibrillators are safe from wireless phone EMI. FDA has tested wireless phones and helped develop a voluntary standard					
sponsored by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE). This standard specifies test methods and performance requirements for hearing aids and wireless phones so that no interference occurs when a person uses a compatible phone and a compatible hearing aid at the same time. This standard was approved by the IEEE in 2000.					
FDA continues to monitor the use of wireless phones for possible interactions with other medical devices. Should harmful interference be found to occur, FDA will conduct testing to assess the interference and work to resolve the problem.					
Additional information on the safety of RF exposures from various sources can be obtained from the following organizations (Updated 1/1/2010):					
FCC RF Safety Program:  http://www.fcc.gov/oet/rfsafety/					
					
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA):  http://www.epa.gov/radiation/					
					
Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA):  http://www.osha.gov/SLTC/radiofrequencyradiation/index.html					
					
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH):  http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/					
					
World Health Organization (WHO):  http://www.who.int/peh-emf/					
					
International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection:  http://www.icnirp.de					
					
Health Protection Agency:  http://www.hpa.org.uk/radiation					
					
US Food and Drug Administration:  http://www.fda.gov/Radiation-EmittingProducts/ RadiationEmittingProductsandProcedures/  					
HomeBusinessandEntertainment/CellPhones/default.htm					
Road Safety					
Your wireless phone gives you the powerful ability to communicate by voice, almost anywhere, anytime. But an important responsibility accompanies the benefits of wireless phones, one that every user must uphold.					
When driving a car, driving is your first responsibility. When using your wireless phone behind the wheel of a car, practice good common sense and remember the following tips:					
Get to know your wireless phone and its features, such as speed dial and redial. If available, these features help you to place your call without taking your attention off the road.					
When available, use a hands-free device. If possible, add an additional layer of convenience and safety to your wireless phone with one of the many hands free					
accessories available today.					
Position your wireless phone within easy reach. Be able to access your wireless phone without removing your eyes from the road. If you get an incoming call at an inconvenient time, let your voice mail answer it for you.					
Let the person you are speaking with know you are driving; if necessary, suspend the call in heavy traffic or hazardous weather conditions. Rain, sleet, snow, ice and even heavy traffic can be hazardous.					
"Do not take notes or look up phone numbers while driving. Jotting down a ""to do"" list or flipping through your address book takes attention away from your primary responsibility, driving safely."					
Dial sensibly and assess the traffic; if possible, place calls when you are not moving or before pulling into traffic. Try to plan calls when your car will be stationary. If you need to make a call while moving, dial only a few numbers, check the road and your mirrors, then continue.					
					
Do not engage in stressful or emotional conversations that may be distracting. Make people you are talking with aware you are driving and suspend conversations that have the potential to divert your attention from the road.					
Use your wireless phone to call for help. Dial 9-1-1 or other local emergency number in the case of fire, traffic accident or medical emergencies.					
Use your wireless phone to help others in emergencies. If you see an auto accident, crime in progress or other serious emergency where lives are in danger, call 9-1-1 or other local emergency number, as you would want others to do for you.					
Call roadside assistance or a special non-emergency wireless assistance number when necessary. If you see a broken-down vehicle posing no serious hazard, a broken traffic signal, a minor traffic accident where no one appears injured, or a vehicle you know to be stolen, call roadside assistance or other special non-emergency number.					
"""The wireless industry reminds you to use your phone safely when driving."""					
For more information, please call 1-888-901-SAFE, or visit our web-site  www.ctia.org .					
					
Important!:  If you are using a handset other than a standard numeric keypad, please call 1-888-901-7233.					
					
Provided by the Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association.					
Responsible Listening					
Caution!:  Avoid potential hearing loss.					
					
Damage to hearing occurs when a person is exposed to loud sounds over time. The risk of hearing loss increases as sound is played louder and for longer durations. Prolonged exposure to loud sounds (including music) is the most common cause of preventable hearing loss. Some scientific research suggests that using portable audio devices, such as portable music players and cellular telephones, at high volume settings for long durations may lead to permanent noise-induced hearing loss. This includes the use of headphones (including headsets, earbuds, and Bluetooth or other wireless devices). Exposure to very loud sound has also been associated in some studies with tinnitus (a ringing in the ear), hypersensitivity to sound and distorted hearing.					
					
Individual susceptibility to noise-induced hearing loss and potential hearing problem varies. Additionally, the amount of sound produced by a portable audio device varies depending on the nature of the sound, the device settings, and the headphones that are used. As a result, there is no single volume setting that is appropriate for everyone or for every combination of sound, settings and equipment.					
You should follow some commonsense recommendations when using any portable audio device:					
Set the volume in a quiet environment and select the lowest volume at which you can hear adequately.					
When using headphones, turn the volume down if you cannot hear the people speaking near you or if the person sitting next to you can hear what you are listening to.					
Do not turn the volume up to block out noisy surroundings. If you choose to listen to your portable device in a noisy environment, use noise-cancelling headphones to block out background environmental noise. By blocking background environment noise, noise cancelling headphones should allow you to hear the music at lower volumes than when using earbuds.					
Limit the amount of time you listen. As the volume increases, less time is required before you hearing could be affected.					
Avoid using headphones after exposure to extremely loud noises, such as rock concerts, that might cause temporary hearing loss. Temporary hearing loss might cause unsafe volumes to sound normal.					
Do not listen at any volume that causes you discomfort. If you experience ringing in your ears, hear muffled speech or experience any temporary hearing difficulty after listening to your portable audio device, discontinue use and consult your doctor.					
You can obtain additional information on this subject from the following sources:					
					
American Academy of Audiology					
11730 Plaza American Drive, Suite 300					
Reston, VA 20190					
Voice: (800) 222-2336					
Email:  info@audiology.org  Internet:  http://www.audiology.org					
					
National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders					
National Institutes of Health 31 Center Drive, MSC 2320					
Bethesda, MD 20892-2320 Email:  nidcdinfo@nih.gov  Internet:  http://www.nidcd.nih.gov/					
					
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)					
395 E Street, S.W. Suite 9200					
Patriots Plaza Building Washington, DC 20201					
Voice: 1-800-35-NIOSH (1-800-356-4647)					
1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636)					
Outside the U.S. 513-533-8328 Email:  cdcinfo@cdc.gov  Internet:  http://www.cdc.gov					
					
1-888-232-6348 TTY					
Internet:  http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/noise/default.html					
					
Operat ing Environment					
					
Remember to follow any special regulations in force in any area and always switch your phone off whenever it is forbidden to use it, or when it may cause interference or danger.					
When connecting the phone or any accessory to another device, read its user's guide for detailed safety instructions. Do not connect incompatible products.					
As with other mobile radio transmitting equipment, users are advised that for the satisfactory operation of the equipment and for the safety of personnel, it is recommended that the equipment should only be used in the normal operating position (held to your ear with the antenna pointing over your shoulder if you are using an external antenna).					
Using Your Phone Near Other Electronic Devices Most modern electronic equipment is shielded from radio frequency (RF) signals. However, certain electronic equipment					
may not be shielded against the RF signals from your wireless					
phone. Consult the manufacturer to discuss alternatives.					
Implantable Medical Devices					
A minimum separation of six (6) inches should be maintained between a handheld wireless phone and an implantable medical device, such as a pacemaker or implantable cardioverter defibrillator, to avoid potential interference with the device.					
					
Persons who have such devices:					
Should ALWAYS keep the phone more than six (6) inches from their implantable medical device when the phone is turned ON;					
Should not carry the phone in a breast pocket;					
Should use the ear opposite the implantable medical device to minimize the potential for interference;					
Should turn the phone OFF immediately if there is any reason to suspect that interference is taking place;					
Should read and follow the directions from the manufacturer of your implantable medical device. If you have any questions about using your wireless phone with such a device, consult your health care provider.					
For more information see:  http://www.fcc.gov/oet/rfsafety/rf-faqs.html					
					
FCC Hearing-Aid Compatibility  (HAC)					
					
Regulations for Wireless Devices					
On July 10, 2003, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Report and Order in WT Docket 01-309 modified the exception of wireless phones under the Hearing Aid Compatibility Act of 1988 (HAC Act) to require digital wireless phones be compatible with hearing-aids.					
The intent of the HAC Act is to ensure reasonable access to telecommunications services for persons with hearing disabilities.					
While some wireless phones are used near some hearing devices (hearing aids and cochlear implants), users may detect a buzzing, humming, or whining noise. Some hearing devices are more immune than others to this interference noise, and phones also vary in the amount of interference they generate.					
The wireless telephone industry has developed a rating system for wireless phones, to assist hearing device users find phones that may be compatible with their hearing devices. Not all phones have been rated. Phones that are rated have the rating on their box or a label located on the box.					
The ratings are not guarantees. Results will vary depending on the user's hearing device and hearing loss. If your hearing device happens to be vulnerable to interference, you may not be able to use a rated phone successfully. Trying out the phone with your hearing device is the best way to evaluate it for your personal  needs.					
					
M-Ratings : Phones rated M3 or M4 meet FCC requirements and are likely to generate less interference to hearing devices than phones that are not labeled. M4 is the better/higher of the two ratings.					
					
T- Ratings : Phones rated T3 or T4 meet FCC requirements and are likely to generate less interference to hearing devices than phones that are not labeled. T4 is the better/higher of the two ratings.					
					
Hearing devices may also be rated. Your hearing device manufacturer or hearing health professional may help you find this rating. Higher ratings mean that the hearing device is relatively immune to interference noise. The hearing aid and wireless phone rating values are then added together.					
A sum of 5 is considered acceptable for normal use. A sum of 6 is considered for best use.					
M3	+	M2  = 5	T3	+	T2  = 5
					
"In the above example, if a hearing aid meets the M2 level rating and the wireless phone meets the M3 level rating, the sum of the two values equal M5. This is synonymous for T ratings. This should provide the hearing aid user with ""normal usage"" while"					
"using their hearing aid with the particular wireless phone. ""Normal usage"" in this context is defined as a signal quality that is acceptable for normal operation."					
The M mark is intended to be synonymous with the U mark. The T mark is intended to be synonymous with the UT mark. The M and T marks are recommended by the Alliance for Telecommunications Industries Solutions (ATIS). The U and UT marks are referenced in Section 20.19 of the FCC Rules.					
The HAC rating and measurement procedure are described in the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) C63.19 standard.					
HAC/Wi-Fi Language					
This phone has been tested and rated for use with hearing aids for some of the wireless technologies that it uses. However, there may be some newer wireless technologies used in this phone that have not been tested yet for use with hearing aids. It is important to try the different features of this phone thoroughly and in different locations, using your hearing aid or cochlear implant, to determine if you hear any interfering noise. Consult your service provider about its return and exchange policies and for information on hearing aid compatibility.					
					
Other Medical Devices					
If you use any other personal medical devices, consult the manufacturer of your device to determine if it is adequately shielded from external RF energy. Your physician may be able to assist you in obtaining this information. Switch your phone off in health care facilities when any regulations posted in these areas instruct you to do so. Hospitals or health care facilities may be using equipment that could be sensitive to external RF energy.					
Vehicles					
RF signals may affect improperly installed or inadequately shielded electronic systems in motor vehicles. Check with the manufacturer or its representative regarding your vehicle. You should also consult the manufacturer of any equipment that has been added to your vehicle.					
Posted Facilities					
Switch your phone off in any facility where posted notices require you to do so.					
Potentially Explosive Environments					
Switch your phone off when in any area with a potentially explosive atmosphere and obey all signs and instructions. Sparks in such areas could cause an explosion or fire resulting in bodily injury or even death.					
Users are advised to switch the phone off while at a refueling point (service station). Users are reminded of the need to observe restrictions on the use of radio equipment in fuel depots (fuel storage and distribution areas), chemical plants or where blasting operations are in progress.					
Areas with a potentially explosive atmosphere are often but not always clearly marked. They include below deck on boats, chemical transfer or storage facilities, vehicles using liquefied petroleum gas (such as propane or butane), areas where the air contains chemicals or particles, such as grain, dust or metal powders, and any other area where you would normally be advised to turn off your vehicle engine.					
Emergency Calls					
This phone, like any wireless phone, operates using radio signals, wireless and landline networks as well as user- programmed functions, which cannot guarantee connection in all conditions. Therefore, you should never rely solely on any wireless phone for essential communications (medical emergencies, for example).					
Remember, to make or receive any calls the phone must be switched on and in a service area with adequate signal strength. Emergency calls may not be possible on all wireless phone networks or when certain network services and/or phone features are in use. Check with local service providers.					
					
To make an emergency call:					
If the phone is not on, switch it on.					
From a Home screen, touch 					
  Phone . Enter the emergency number for your present location (for example,					
					
911 or other official emergency number), then touch 					
 to place the call.					
					
If certain features are in use (call barring, for example), you may first need to deactivate those features before you can make an emergency call. Consult this document and your local cellular service provider.					
When making an emergency call, remember to give all the necessary information as accurately as possible. Remember that your phone may be the only means of communication at the scene of an accident; do not cut off the call until given permission to do so.					
Restricting Children's access to your Phone					
Your phone is not a toy. Children should not be allowed to play with it because they could hurt themselves and others, damage the phone or make calls that increase your phone bill.					
FCC Notice and Cautions					
FCC Notice					
The phone may cause TV or radio interference if used in close proximity to receiving equipment. The FCC can require you to stop using the phone if such interference cannot be eliminated.					
Vehicles using liquefied petroleum gas (such as propane or butane) must comply with the National Fire Protection Standard (NFPA-58). For a copy of this standard, contact the National Fire Protection Association:					
					
NFPA (National Fire Protection Agency)					
1 Batterymarch Park Quincy, Massachusetts USA 02169-7471					
Internet:  http://www.nfpa.org					
					
Cautions					
Any changes or modifications to your phone not expressly approved in this document could void your warranty for this equipment, and void your authority to operate this equipment. Only use approved batteries, antennas and chargers. The use of any unauthorized accessories may be dangerous and void the					
					
phone warranty if said accessories cause damage or a defect to the phone.					
Although your phone is quite sturdy, it is a complex piece of equipment and can be broken. Avoid dropping, hitting, bending or sitting on it.					
Other Important Safety Information					
Only qualified personnel should service the phone or install the phone in a vehicle. Faulty installation or service may be dangerous and may invalidate any warranty applicable to the device.					
Check regularly that all wireless phone equipment in your vehicle is mounted and operating properly.					
Do not store or carry flammable liquids, gases or explosive materials in the same compartment as the phone, its parts or accessories.					
For vehicles equipped with an air bag, remember that an air bag inflates with great force. Do not place objects, including both installed or portable wireless equipment in the area over the air bag or in the air bag deployment area. If wireless equipment is improperly installed and the air bag inflates, serious injury could result.					
Switch your phone off before boarding an aircraft. The use of wireless phone in aircraft is illegal and may be dangerous to the aircraft's operation.					
Failure to observe these instructions may lead to the suspension or denial of telephone services to the offender, or legal action, or both.					
Product Performance					
Getting the Most Out of Your Signal Reception					
The quality of each call you make or receive depends on the signal strength in your area. Your phone informs you of the current signal strength by displaying a number of bars next to the signal strength icon. The more bars displayed, the stronger the signal.					
If you're inside a building, being near a window may give you better reception.					
Understanding the Power Save Feature					
If your phone is unable to find a signal after searching, a Power Save feature is automatically activated. If your phone is active, it periodically rechecks service availability or you can check it yourself by pressing any key.					
Anytime the Power Save feature is activated, a message displays on the screen. When a signal is found, your phone returns to standby mode.					
Understanding How Your Phone Operates					
Your phone is basically a radio transmitter and receiver. When it's turned on, it receives and transmits radio frequency (RF) signals. When you use your phone, the system handling your call controls the power level. This power can range from 0.006 watts to 0.2 watts in digital mode.					
					
Maintaining Your Phone's Peak Performance					
For the best care of your phone, only authorized personnel should service your phone and accessories. Faulty service may void the warranty. There are several simple guidelines to operating your phone properly and maintaining safe, satisfactory service.					
To ensure that the Hearing Aid Compatibility rating for your phone is maintained, secondary transmitters such as Bluetooth and WLAN components must be disabled during a call.  For more information,   refer to “Turning Bluetooth On or Off” on page 111.					
					
If your phone is equipped with an external antenna, hold the phone with the antenna raised, fully-extended and over your shoulder.					
Do not hold, bend or twist the phone's antenna, if applicable.					
Do not use the phone if the antenna is damaged.					
If your phone is equipped with an internal antenna, obstructing the internal antenna could inhibit call performance.					
Speak directly into the phone's receiver.					
Avoid exposing your phone and accessories to rain or liquid spills. If your phone does get wet, immediately turn the power off and remove the battery. If it is inoperable, call Customer Care for service.					
Availability of Various Features/Ring Tones Many services and features are network dependent and may require additional subscription and/or usage charges. Not all					
features are available for purchase or use in all areas.					
Downloadable Ring Tones may be available at an additional cost.					
Other conditions and restrictions may apply. See your service provider for additional information.					
Battery Standby and Talk Time					
Standby and talk times will vary depending on phone usage patterns and conditions. Battery power consumption depends on factors such as network configuration, signal strength, operating temperature, features selected, frequency of calls, and voice, data, and other application usage patterns.					
Battery Precautions					
Avoid dropping the cell phone. Dropping it, especially on a hard surface, can potentially cause damage to the phone and battery. If you suspect damage to the phone or battery, take it to a service center for inspection.					
Never use any charger or battery that is damaged in any way.					
Do not modify or remanufacture the battery as this could result in serious safety hazards.					
If you use the phone near the network's base station, it uses less power; talk and standby time are greatly affected by the signal strength on the cellular network and the parameters set by the network operator.					
Follow battery usage, storage and charging guidelines found in the user’s guide.					
					
Battery charging time depends on the remaining battery charge and the type of battery and charger used. The battery can be charged and discharged hundreds of times, but it will gradually wear out. When the operation time (talk time and standby time) is noticeably shorter than normal, it is time to buy a new battery.					
If left unused, a fully charged battery will discharge itself over time.					
Use only Samsung-approved batteries and recharge your battery only with Samsung-approved chargers. When a charger is not in use, disconnect it from the power source. Do not leave the battery connected to a charger for more than a week, since overcharging may shorten its life.					
Do not use incompatible cell phone batteries and chargers. Some Web sites and second-hand dealers, not associated with reputable manufacturers and carriers, might be selling incompatible or even counterfeit batteries and chargers. Consumers should purchase manufacturer or carrier recommended products and accessories. If unsure about whether a replacement battery or charger is compatible, contact the manufacturer of the battery or charger.					
Misuse or use of incompatible phones, batteries, and charging devices could result in damage to the equipment and a possible risk of fire, explosion, leakage, or other serious hazard.					
Extreme temperatures will affect the charging capacity of your battery: it may require cooling or warming first.					
Do not leave the battery in hot or cold places, such as in a car in summer or winter conditions, as you will reduce the capacity and lifetime of the battery. Always try to keep the battery at room temperature. A phone with a hot or cold battery may temporarily not work, even when the battery is fully charged. Li-ion batteries are particularly affected by temperatures below					
0 °C (32 °F).					
Do not place the phone in areas that may get very hot, such as on or near a cooking surface, cooking appliance, iron, or radiator.					
Do not get your phone or battery wet. Even though they will dry and appear to operate normally, the circuitry could slowly corrode and pose a safety hazard.					
Do not short-circuit the battery. Accidental short-circuiting can occur when a metallic object (coin, clip or pen) causes a direct connection between the + and - terminals of the battery (metal strips on the battery), for example when you carry a spare battery in a pocket or bag. Short-circuiting the terminals may damage the battery or the object causing the short-circuiting.					
Do not permit a battery out of the phone to come in contact with metal objects, such as coins, keys or jewelry.					
Do not crush, puncture or put a high degree of pressure on the battery as this can cause an internal short-circuit, resulting in overheating.					
					
Dispose of used batteries in accordance with local regulations. In some areas, the disposal of batteries in household or business trash may be prohibited. For safe disposal options for Li-Ion batteries, contact your nearest Samsung authorized service center. Always recycle. Do not dispose of batteries in a fire.					
Care and Maintenance					
Your phone is a product of superior design and craftsmanship and should be treated with care. The suggestions below will help you fulfill any warranty obligations and allow you to enjoy this product for many years.					
Keep the phone and all its parts and accessories out of the reach of small children.					
Keep the phone dry. Precipitation, humidity and liquids contain minerals that will corrode electronic circuits.					
Do not use the phone with a wet hand. Doing so may cause an electric shock to you or damage to the phone.					
Do not use or store the phone in dusty, dirty areas, as its moving parts may be damaged.					
Do not store the phone in hot areas. High temperatures can shorten the life of electronic devices, damage batteries, and warp or melt certain plastics.					
Do not store the phone in cold areas. When the phone warms up to its normal operating temperature, moisture can form inside the phone, which may damage the phone's electronic circuit boards.					
Do not drop, knock or shake the phone. Rough handling can break internal circuit boards.					
Do not use harsh chemicals, cleaning solvents or strong detergents to clean the phone. Wipe it with a soft cloth slightly dampened in a mild soap-and-water solution.					
Do not paint the phone. Paint can clog the device's moving parts and prevent proper operation.					
Do not put the phone in or on heating devices, such as a microwave oven, a stove or a radiator. The phone may explode when overheated.					
If your phone is equipped with an external antenna, use only the supplied or an approved replacement antenna. Unauthorized antennas or modified accessories may damage the phone and violate regulations governing radio devices.					
If the phone, battery, charger or any accessory is not working properly, take it to your nearest qualified service facility. The personnel there will assist you, and if necessary, arrange for service.					
					
Section 14:  Warranty Information					
					
Standard Limited Warranty					
What is Covered and For How Long?					
"SAMSUNG TELECOMMUNICATIONS AMERICA, LLC (""SAMSUNG"")"					
"warrants to the original purchaser (""Purchaser"") that SAMSUNG's phones and accessories (""Products"") are free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service for the period commencing upon the date of purchase and continuing for the following specified period of time after that date:"					
					
Phone	1 Year				
					
Batteries	1 Year				
					
Leather Case	90 Days				
					
Holster	90 Days				
					
Other Phone Accessories	1 Year				
					
What is Not Covered?  This Limited Warranty is conditioned upon proper use of Product by Purchaser. This Limited Warranty does not cover: (a) defects or damage resulting from accident, misuse, abnormal use, abnormal conditions, improper storage, exposure to moisture or dampness, neglect, unusual physical, electrical or electromechanical stress, or defects in appearance, cosmetic, decorative or structural					
					
items, including framing, and any non-operative parts unless caused by SAMSUNG; (b) defects or damage resulting from excessive force or use of a metallic object when pressing on a touch screen; (c) equipment that has the serial number or the enhancement data code removed, defaced, damaged, altered or made illegible; (d) any plastic surfaces or other externally exposed parts that are scratched or damaged due to normal use; (e) malfunctions resulting from the use of Product in conjunction or connection with accessories, products, or ancillary/peripheral equipment not furnished or approved by SAMSUNG; (f) defects or damage from improper testing, operation, maintenance, installation, service, or adjustment not furnished or approved by SAMSUNG; (g) defects or damage from external causes such as collision with an object, or from fire, flooding, sand, dirt, windstorm, lightning, earthquake, or from exposure to weather conditions, or battery leakage, theft, blown fuse, or improper use of any electrical source; (h) defects or damage caused by cellular signal reception or transmission, or viruses or other software problems introduced into the Product; (j) any other acts which are not the fault of SAMSUNG; or (i) Product used or purchased outside the United States. This Limited Warranty covers batteries only if battery capacity falls below 80% of rated capacity or the battery leaks, and this Limited Warranty does not cover any battery if (i) the battery has been charged by a battery charger not specified or approved by SAMSUNG for charging the battery, (ii) any of the seals on the battery are broken or					
					
show evidence of tampering, or (iii) the battery has been used in equipment other than the SAMSUNG phone for which it is specified.					
What are SAMSUNG's Obligations?  During the applicable warranty period, SAMSUNG will repair or replace, at SAMSUNG's sole option, without charge to Purchaser, any defective component part of Product. To obtain service under this Limited Warranty, Purchaser must return Product to an authorized phone service facility in an adequate container for shipping, accompanied by Purchaser's sales receipt or comparable substitute proof of sale showing the original date of purchase, the serial number of Product and the sellers' name and address. To obtain assistance on where to deliver the Product, call Samsung Customer Care at 1-888-987-4357. Upon receipt, SAMSUNG will promptly repair or replace the defective Product. SAMSUNG may, at SAMSUNG's sole option, use rebuilt, reconditioned, or new parts or components when repairing any Product or replace Product with a rebuilt, reconditioned or new Product. Repaired/replaced cases, pouches and holsters will be warranted for a period of ninety (90) days. All other repaired/replaced Product will be warranted for a period equal to the remainder of the original Limited Warranty on the original Product or for 90 days, whichever is longer. All replaced parts, components, boards and equipment shall become the property of SAMSUNG. If SAMSUNG determines that any Product is not covered by this Limited Warranty, Purchaser					
					
must pay all parts, shipping, and labor charges for the repair or return of such Product.					
"What Are The Limits On Samsung's Warranty/liability?  EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE EXPRESS WARRANTY CONTAINED HEREIN, PURCHASER TAKES THE PRODUCT ""AS IS,"" AND SAMSUNG MAKES NO WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION AND THERE ARE NO CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO:"					
					
THE MERCHANTABILITY OF THE PRODUCT OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE;					
WARRANTIES OF TITLE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT;					
DESIGN, CONDITION, QUALITY, OR PERFORMANCE OF THE PRODUCT;					
THE WORKMANSHIP OF THE PRODUCT OR THE COMPONENTS CONTAINED THEREIN; OR					
COMPLIANCE OF THE PRODUCT WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF ANY LAW, RULE, SPECIFICATION OR CONTRACT PERTAINING THERETO.					
NOTHING CONTAINED IN THE INSTRUCTION MANUAL SHALL BE CONSTRUED TO CREATE AN EXPRESS WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCT. ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS THAT MAY ARISE BY OPERATION OF LAW, INCLUDING IF APPLICABLE THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ARE HEREBY LIMITED TO THE SAME DURATION OF TIME AS THE EXPRESS					
					
WRITTEN WARRANTY STATED HEREIN. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. IN ADDITION, SAMSUNG SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OF ANY KIND RESULTING FROM THE PURCHASE, USE, OR MISUSE OF, OR INABILITY TO USE THE PRODUCT OR ARISING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY FROM THE USE OR LOSS OF USE OF THE PRODUCT OR FROM THE BREACH OF THE EXPRESS WARRANTY, INCLUDING INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR SIMILAR DAMAGES, OR LOSS OF ANTICIPATED PROFITS OR BENEFITS, OR FOR DAMAGES ARISING FROM ANY TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR GROSS NEGLIGENCE) OR FAULT COMMITTED BY SAMSUNG, ITS AGENTS OR EMPLOYEES, OR FOR ANY BREACH OF CONTRACT OR FOR ANY CLAIM BROUGHT AGAINST PURCHASER BY ANY OTHER PARTY. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.					
THIS WARRANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS, AND YOU MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER RIGHTS, WHICH VARY FROM STATE TO STATE. THIS LIMITED WARRANTY SHALL NOT EXTEND TO ANYONE OTHER THAN THE ORIGINAL PURCHASER OF THIS PRODUCT AND STATES PURCHASER'S EXCLUSIVE REMEDY. IF ANY PORTION OF THIS LIMITED WARRANTY IS HELD ILLEGAL OR UNENFORCEABLE BY REASON OF ANY LAW, SUCH PARTIAL ILLEGALITY OR UNENFORCEABILITY SHALL NOT AFFECT THE ENFORCEABILITY FOR THE REMAINDER OF THIS LIMITED WARRANTY					
WHICH PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES IS AND WILL ALWAYS BE CONSTRUED TO BE LIMITED BY ITS TERMS OR AS LIMITED AS THE LAW PERMITS.					
THE PARTIES UNDERSTAND THAT THE PURCHASER MAY USE THIRD- PARTY SOFTWARE OR EQUIPMENT IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE PRODUCT. SAMSUNG MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS AND THERE ARE NO CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, AS TO THE QUALITY, CAPABILITIES, OPERATIONS, PERFORMANCE OR SUITABILITY OF ANY THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE OR EQUIPMENT, WHETHER SUCH THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE OR EQUIPMENT IS INCLUDED WITH THE PRODUCT DISTRIBUTED BY SAMSUNG OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING THE ABILITY TO INTEGRATE ANY SUCH SOFTWARE OR EQUIPMENT WITH THE PRODUCT. THE QUALITY, CAPABILITIES, OPERATIONS, PERFORMANCE AND SUITABILITY OF ANY SUCH THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE OR EQUIPMENT LIE SOLELY WITH THE PURCHASER AND THE DIRECT VENDOR, OWNER OR SUPPLIER OF SUCH THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE OR EQUIPMENT, AS THE CASE MAY BE.					
This Limited Warranty allocates risk of Product failure between Purchaser and SAMSUNG, and SAMSUNG's Product pricing reflects this allocation of risk and the limitations of liability contained in this Limited Warranty. The agents, employees, distributors, and dealers of SAMSUNG are not authorized to make modifications to this Limited Warranty, or make additional warranties binding on SAMSUNG. Accordingly, additional statements such as dealer advertising or presentation,					
					
whether oral or written, do not constitute warranties by SAMSUNG and should not be relied upon.					
Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC 1301 E. Lookout Drive					
Richardson, Texas 75082 Phone: 1-800-SAMSUNG Phone: 1-888-987-HELP (4357)					
©2010 Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC. All rights reserved.					
No reproduction in whole or in part allowed without prior written approval. Specifications and availability subject to change without notice. [021710]					
"End User License Agreement for Software IMPORTANT. READ CAREFULLY: This End User License Agreement (""EULA"") is a legal agreement between you (either an individual"					
or a single entity) and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. for software					
"owned by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and its affiliated companies and its third party suppliers and licensors that accompanies this EULA, which includes computer software and may include associated media, printed materials, ""online"" or electronic documentation (""Software""). BY CLICKING THE ""I ACCEPT"" BUTTON (OR IF YOU BYPASS OR OTHERWISE DISABLE THE ""I ACCEPT"", AND STILL INSTALL, COPY, DOWNLOAD, ACCESS OR OTHERWISE USE THE SOFTWARE), YOU AGREE TO"					
"BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS EULA. IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THE TERMS IN THIS EULA, YOU MUST CLICK THE ""DECLINE"" BUTTON, DISCONTINUE USE OF THE SOFTWARE."					
GRANT OF LICENSE. Samsung grants you the following rights provided that you comply with all terms and conditions of this EULA: You may install, use, access, display and run one copy of the Software on the local hard disk(s) or other permanent storage media of one computer and use the Software on a single computer or a mobile device at a time, and you may not make the Software available over a network where it could be used by multiple computers at the same time. You may make one copy of the Software in machine-readable form for backup purposes only; provided that the backup copy must include all copyright or other proprietary notices contained on the original.					
RESERVATION OF RIGHTS AND OWNERSHIP. Samsung reserves					
all rights not expressly granted to you in this EULA. The Software is protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws and treaties. Samsung or its suppliers own the title, copyright and other intellectual property rights in the Software. The Software is licensed, not sold.					
LIMITATIONS ON END USER RIGHTS. You may not reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, or otherwise attempt to discover the source code or algorithms of, the Software (except and only to the extent that such activity is expressly permitted by					
					
applicable law notwithstanding this limitation), or modify, or disable any features of, the Software, or create derivative works based on the Software. You may not rent, lease, lend, sublicense or provide commercial hosting services with the Software.					
CONSENT TO USE OF DATA. You agree that Samsung and its affiliates may collect and use technical information gathered as part of the product support services related to the Software provided to you, if any, related to the Software. Samsung may use this information solely to improve its products or to provide customized services or technologies to you and will not disclose this information in a form that personally identifies you.					
UPGRADES. This EULA applies to updates, supplements and add-on components (if any) of the Software that Samsung may provide to you or make available to you after the date you obtain your initial copy of the Software, unless we provide other terms along with such upgrade. To use Software identified as an upgrade, you must first be licensed for the Software identified by Samsung as eligible for the upgrade. After upgrading, you may no longer use the Software that formed the basis for your upgrade eligibility.					
SOFTWARE TRANSFER. You may not transfer this EULA or the rights to the Software granted herein to any third party unless it is in connection with the sale of the mobile device which the Software accompanied. In such event, the transfer must include					
all of the Software (including all component parts, the media and printed materials, any upgrades, this EULA) and you may not retain any copies of the Software. The transfer may not be an indirect transfer, such as a consignment. Prior to the transfer, the end user receiving the Software must agree to all the EULA terms.					
EXPORT RESTRICTIONS. You acknowledge that the Software is subject to export restrictions of various countries. You agree to comply with all applicable international and national laws that apply to the Software, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, as well as end user, end use, and destination restrictions issued by U.S. and other governments.					
TERMINATION. This EULA is effective until terminated. Your rights under this License will terminate automatically without notice from Samsung if you fail to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this EULA. Upon termination of this EULA, you shall cease all use of the Software and destroy all copies, full or partial, of the Software.					
"DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES. You expressly acknowledge and agree that use of the Software is at your sole risk and that the entire risk as to satisfactory quality, performance, accuracy and effort is with you. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ""AS IS"" AND WITH ALL FAULTS AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, AND"					
					
"SAMSUNG AND ITS LICENSORS (COLLECTIVELY REFERRED TO AS ""SAMSUNG"" FOR THE PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 9, 10 and 11) HEREBY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND/OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, OF SATISFACTORY QUALITY OR WORKMANLIKE EFFORT, OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OF RELIABILITY OR AVAILABILITY, OF ACCURACY, OF LACK OF VIRUSES, OF QUIET ENJOYMENT, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. SAMSUNG DOES NOT WARRANT AGAINST INTERFERENCE WITH YOUR ENJOYMENT OF THE SOFTWARE, THAT THE FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN THE SOFTWARE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS, THAT THE OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, OR THAT DEFECTS IN THE SOFTWARE WILL BE CORRECTED. NO ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR ADVICE GIVEN BY SAMSUNG OR A SAMSUNG AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR LIMITATIONS ON APPLICABLE STATUTORY RIGHTS OF A CONSUMER, SO THESE EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU."					
EXCLUSION OF INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL AND CERTAIN OTHER DAMAGES. TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL SAMSUNG BE LIABLE FOR PERSONAL INJURY, OR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, OR FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF DATA, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, OR FOR ANY PECUNIARY DAMAGES OR LOSSES, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO YOUR USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, THE PROVISION OF OR FAILURE TO PROVIDE SUPPORT OR OTHER SERVICES, INFORMATION, SOFTWARE, AND RELATED CONTENT THROUGH THE SOFTWARE OR OTHERWISE ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE, OR OTHERWISE UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY PROVISION OF THIS EULA, HOWEVER CAUSED, REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF LIABILITY (CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) AND EVEN IF SAMSUNG HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR PERSONAL INJURY, OR OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.					
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. Notwithstanding any damages that you might incur for any reason whatsoever (including, without limitation, all damages referenced herein and all direct or general damages in contract or anything else), the entire liability of Samsung under any provision of this EULA and your exclusive remedy hereunder shall be limited to the greater of the actual					
					
damages you incur in reasonable reliance on the Software up to the amount actually paid by you for the Software or US$5.00. The foregoing limitations, exclusions and disclaimers (including Sections 9, 10 and 11) shall apply to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, even if any remedy fails its essential purpose.					
"U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS. The Software is licensed only with ""restricted rights"" and as ""commercial items"" consisting of ""commercial software"" and ""commercial software documentation"" with only those rights as are granted to all other end users pursuant to the terms and conditions herein."					
APPLICABLE LAW. This EULA is governed by the laws of TEXAS, without regard to conflicts of laws principles. This EULA shall not be governed by the UN Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, the application of which is expressly excluded. If a dispute, controversy or difference is not amicably settled, it shall be finally resolved by arbitration in Seoul, Korea in accordance with the Arbitration Rules of the Korean Commercial Arbitration Board. The award of arbitration shall be final and binding upon the parties.					
ENTIRE AGREEMENT; SEVERABILITY. This EULA is the entire					
agreement between you and Samsung relating to the Software and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous oral or written communications, proposals and representations with respect to					
the Software or any other subject matter covered by this EULA. If any provision of this EULA is held to be void, invalid, unenforceable or illegal, the other provisions shall continue in full force and effect.					
Precautions for Transfer and Disposal					
If data stored on this device is deleted or reformatted using the standard methods, the data only appears to be removed on a superficial level, and it may be possible for someone to retrieve and reuse the data by means of special software.					
To avoid unintended information leaks and other problems of this sort, it is recommended that the device be returned to Samsung’s Customer Care Center for an Extended File System (EFS) Clear which will eliminate all user memory and return all settings to default settings. Please contact the  Samsung Customer Care Center  for details.					
					
Important!:  Please provide warranty information (proof of purchase) to Samsung’s Customer Care Center in order to provide this service at no charge. If the warranty has expired on the device, charges may apply.					
					
Customer Care Center:					
1000 Klein Rd.					
Plano, TX 75074					
Toll Free Tel: 1.888.987.HELP (4357)					
Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC: 1301 East Lookout Drive					
Richardson, Texas 75082					
Phone: 1-800-SAMSUNG (726-7864)					
Important!:  If you are using a handset other than a standard numeric keypad, dial the numbers listed in brackets.					
					
Phone: 1-888-987-HELP (4357)					
©2010 Samsung Telecommunications America. All rights reserved.					
No reproduction in whole or in part allowed without prior written approval. Specifications and availability subject to change without notice.					
					
Index					
					
Numerics					
					
3G Mobile Hotspot					
settings  112					
					
turning on and off  112					
					
using your phone as a hotspot  88					
A					
					
Accessibility settings					
services  134					
					
Accounts					
adding a Corporate account  39  adding a Google account  38  setting up  38					
					
setting up a Facebook account  41  setting up a MySpace account  41  setting up a Twitter account  41					
					
Activating your phone  6   Airplane mode  113   Android keyboard					
					
configuring  56					
					
entering text  56					
					
Android Market  94					
					
Applications  28					
					
downloading new  94					
					
Applications settings					
allow mock locations  127					
					
development  126					
					
managing  126					
					
running services  126					
					
stay awake  127					
					
unknown sources  125					
					
USB debugging  126					
					
B					
Back key  18					
					
Backup Assistant  51					
					
Battery					
charging  8					
					
cover, removing & installing  7					
					
indicator  6					
					
installing  7					
					
non-supported batteries  8					
					
removing  7					
					
Bluetooth					
pairing with a device  90					
					
profiles  110					
					
settings  111					
					
turning on or off  89					
					
Browser  66					
					
settings  70					
					
Buddies Now  95					
C					
					
Calculator  95					
					
Calendar  96					
					
Call log					
creating/updating contacts  36					
					
managing  36					
					
sending messages  36					
					
Call settings					
auto retry  115					
					
DTMF tones  116					
					
ignore with message  115					
					
TTY mode  116					
					
voice privacy  116					
					
Calls					
answering  34					
					
call-waiting  35					
					
ending  35					
					
from Call log  33					
					
from Contacts  33					
					
from Favorites  33					
					
in-call options  35					
					
rejecting  35					
					
sending to voicemail  35  silencing a ringer  34  three-way  34					
					
using the Dialer  32					
					
Camcorder					
recording video  81					
					
settings  82					
					
Camera					
settings  80					
					
taking pictures  79					
					
City ID  97					
					
Clock  97					
					
Contacts					
activities  50					
					
backing up  46 ,  51					
					
Backup Assistant  46					
					
creating  42					
					
creating from Call log  42  creating from the Dialer  43  exporting and importing  46  Get Friends  44					
					
groups  48					
					
history  50					
					
linking  44					
					
My Profile  47					
					
namecards  45					
					
setting a picture as contact icon  85					
					
speed dials  51					
					
starred contacts  47					
					
synchronizing with accounts  44					
					
updating  43					
					
updating from Call log  36 ,  43					
					
updating from Dialer  43					
					
Corporate email accounts  39					
D					
					
Daily Briefing  98					
					
Dial Up Networking  91					
					
settings  114					
					
Display settings					
animation  119					
					
automatic orientation  119					
					
brightness  120					
					
screen timeout  120					
					
unlock key  120					
E					
					
E911  121					
					
Email					
account settings  64					
					
combined Inbox  64  composing and sending  63  configuring accounts  62					
					
Corporate accounts  39					
					
refreshing your accounts  64					
					
Exchange account  39					
F					
					
Facebook					
setting up an account  41					
					
Feeds and Updates  99					
G					
					
Gallery  84					
					
sharing pictures and video  85  viewing pictures and video  84  viewing videos  84					
					
Get Friends  44					
					
Gmail					
account settings  61  composing and sending  61  configuring your account  60  managing your account  60  refreshing your account 					
60					
Google					
Android Market  94					
					
Gmail  60					
					
location services setting  122  managing an account  39  setting up an account  38  Talk  62					
					
your account  10					
					
YouTube  66 ,  108					
					
Groups					
adding contacts  49					
					
creating  48					
					
sending a message  50					
H					
					
HAC  148					
					
Health and Safety Information  136					
					
Home key  18					
					
Home screen  20					
					
adding shortcuts  26					
					
adding widgets  24					
					
customizing  21					
					
folders  27					
					
primary shortcuts  23					
					
wallpaper  27					
I					
					
Icons					
Annunciator Line  22					
L					
					
Location settings					
Google location services  122  Standalong GPS services  122  VZW location services  121					
					
Locking and Unlocking					
requiring an unlock pattern  123  setting unlock pattern  123  unlock key setting  120					
					
using a visible pattern  123					
					
using tactile feedback  124					
M					
					
Maps  71					
					
Market  94					
					
Memory Card					
formatting  92					
					
installing  12					
					
notification settings  118					
					
removing  12					
					
Memory settings					
external SD card  130					
					
internal phone storage  131					
					
Menu					
context-sensitive  18					
					
key  18					
					
Messages					
creating and sending  58					
					
email  62					
					
Gmail  60					
					
managing  59					
					
Mobile IM  65					
					
settings  59					
					
Talk  62					
					
threaded view  59					
					
types  57					
					
Mobile Hotspot					
settings  112					
					
turning on and off  112					
					
Mobile networks					
settings  114					
					
M-Ratings  148					
					
Music					
creating a playlist  75					
					
playing  73					
					
setting a song as a ringtone  75					
					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody  76					
					
My Files  100					
					
My Location  121					
					
My Profile  47					
					
sending via Bluetooth or Gmail  47					
					
My Verizon Mobile  101					
					
MySpace					
setting up an account  41					
					
N					
Namecards					
sending  45					
					
Navigation  18					
					
command keys  23					
					
context-sensitive menus  18					
					
touch gestures  18					
					
Notification Panel  19					
					
P					
Pairing with Bluetooth  90					
					
Phone Safety  147					
					
Phone settings  Date & time  135  language  132					
					
media volume  119					
					
Picture ID					
setting  85					
					
Pictures					
Gallery  84					
					
setting as wallpaper  85					
					
sharing  85					
					
taking  79					
					
Playlists					
creating  75   Powering On and Off  9   Privacy					
					
voice  116					
					
Privacy settings  personal data  130   use my location  129					
R					
					
Reset					
factory data  130					
					
Ringback tones					
downloading  78					
					
Ringtones					
downloading  78					
					
notification  117					
					
setting  117					
					
setting a song as a ringtone  75					
					
V CAST Tones  78					
					
Roaming  10					
					
settings  114					
S					
					
SAR values  136					
					
Security					
locking and unlocking  13					
					
screen unlock pattern  123					
					
Security settings					
credential storage  124					
					
screen unlock pattern  123					
					
unlock with tactile feedback  124  using a visible unlock pattern  123  visible passwords  124					
					
Settings  109					
					
Set-up Wizard  9					
					
Silent mode  116					
					
Skype Mobile  101					
					
Sound settings					
audible selection tones  118  audible touch tones  118  haptic feedback  118					
					
notification ringtone  117					
					
phone ringtone  117					
					
phone vibrate  116					
					
ringer volume  117					
					
SD card notifications  118					
					
silent mode  116					
					
system  117					
					
Speed Dials					
assigning  51					
					
removing or reassigning  51					
					
Standard Limited Warranty					
156					
Swype					
configuring  54					
					
entering text  54					
					
Synchronization settings					
auto-sync  127					
					
background data  127					
					
System Tutorial  10					
					
T					
Task Manager  11					
					
Text					
changing input method  53					
					
entering  53					
					
input methods  53					
					
using Android keyboard  56					
					
using Swype  54					
					
virtual QWERTY keyboard  53					
					
Text settings					
Android keyboard  133					
					
Swype  132					
					
user dictionary  133					
					
Threaded view  59					
					
Touch Screen					
audible touch tones  118					
					
haptic feedback  118					
					
orientation setting  119					
					
T-Ratings  149					
					
TTY Mode  10					
					
settings  116					
					
Turning Your Phone On and Off  9					
					
Tutorial, System  10					
					
Twitter					
setting up an account  41					
U					
					
UL Certification  138					
					
Unlocking your phone					
requiring an unlock pattern  123  set an unlock pattern  123  using an unlock pattern  13					
					
USB Power/Accessory Port  17					
					
USB settings					
mass storage  131					
					
media sync  131					
V					
					
V CAST Media Manager  76					
					
V CAST Music with Rhapsody  downloading music  77  importing from audio CD  78  sync music  78					
					
V CAST Tones  78   V CAST Videos  82   Videos					
					
downloading  82					
					
Gallery  84					
					
recording  81					
					
sharing  85					
					
V CAST Videos  82   Visual Voice Mail  37   Voice Commands  104					
					
accessing contacts  105					
					
calling  104					
					
checking status  106					
					
launching My Verizon  106					
					
opening menus or applications  105					
					
playing music  105					
					
redial  104					
					
search  106					
					
sending messages  105					
					
settings  107					
					
Voice Dialer  37					
					
Voicemail					
checking  37					
					
setting up  37					
					
settings  115					
					
Visual Voice Mail  37					
					
Volume					
key  16					
					
media  119					
					
ringer  117					
					
system  117					
					
VPN					
adding  90					
					
settings  113					
					
Wi-Fi  86					
					
Y					
YouTube  66 ,  108					
					
W					
Wallpaper					
setting  85					
					
Warranty Information  156					
					
Widgets  24					
					
Wi-Fi					
adding a connection manually  87  scanning and connecting  87  settings  109					
					
turning on or off  86					
					
using your phone as a hotspot  88					
					
Wireless Networking  3G Mobile Hotspot  88  Bluetooth  89					
					
Dial Up Networking  91					
					
VPN  90					
