The Drunken Boat 

As I was going down the impassive Rivers,
I no longer felt guided by the haulers ;
Screaming savages had taken them for targets,
Having nailed them nude onto multi-coloured columns.

I was unconcerned about all those crews,
Bearers of Flemish wheat and English cotton,
When all the uproar with my haulers was over,
The Rivers let me go down to my destination.

In the furious beating of the tides,
I, the other winter, deafer than the brains of children,
I rushed on ! And the detached Peninsulas
Never knew a more triumphant turmoil.

The tempest blessed my maritime awakenings.
Lighter than a cork I danced on the waters
That are called eternal rollers of victims,
Ten nights, without regretting the naive eyes of fools !

Softer than the flesh of sour apples to children,
The green waters penetrated my pine shell
And spots of blue wine and vomit
Washed over me, dispersing rudder and grapnel.

And thereafter I bathed myself in the Poem
Of the Sea, infused with stars, and, lactescent,
Devouring the green azures ; where, floatation pale
And ravished, a drowned man, thoughtful, sometimes descends ;

Where, all of a sudden tinting the blueness, ravings
And slow rhythms under the shimmering of the day,
Stronger than alcohol, vaster than our lyres,
Fermenting the bitter burnings of love.

I know the skies bursting in flashes, and the torrents
And the surfs and the currents : I know the evening,
The exalted Dawn as well as a population of doves,
And I've sometimes seen what man has thought to see !

I've seen the low sun, spotted with mystical horrors,
Illuminating with long, violet, frozen forms,
Like actors of very ancient dramas,
The waves rolling in the distance their shivering panels !

I'e dreamed of the green night of blinding snows,
Embrace slowly rising up to the eyes of the seas,
The circulation of unheard-of saps,
And the yellow and blue awakening of singing phosphores !

I've followed for months, like hysterical
Acts of meanness, the swells at the assault of the reefs,
Without thinking that the luminous feet of the Marys
Could resist the force of the lazy Oceans !

I've encountered, do you know, incredible Floridas
Mixing with flowers the eyes of panthers with the skins
Of men ! Rainbows stretched like bridles,
Under the horizon of the seas, on glaucous herds !

I've seen enormous swamps ferment, traps
Where a whole Leviathan rots in the rushes !
The collapsing of waters in the middle of calms,
And far-off waters rushing like cataracts into gulfs !

Glaciers, silver suns, pearly waves, fiery skies !
Hideous wreckages at the bottom of brown gulfs,
Where giant serpents devoured by insects
Collapse, twisted trees, with dark perfumes !

I would have liked to show the children those sea-bream
Of the blue waters, those golden fish, those singing fish.
- The foams of flowers have cradled my departures
And ineffable winds have given me wings on occasion.

Sometimes, martyr tired of the poles and the zones,
The sea, whose sobbing cushioned my soft cradling,
Brought up to me its flowers of the shadows with their yellow suckers
And I stayed motionless, like a woman on her knees...

Almost island, balancing on my sides the quarrels
And the guano of squabbling birds with yellow eyes.
And I sailed on, when through my frail nets
Drowned men went down sleeping, reluctantly !...

But I, boat lost in the network of bays,
Thrown by the hurricane into the birdless ether,
I, whose carcass drunk with water the Monitors
And the sailboats of the Hanses never would have recovered.

Free, smoking, mounted by violet mists,
I, who pierced the reddening sky like a wall
Wearing, exquisite decoration for good poets,
Lichens of sun and secretions of azure ;

Who ran, covered with electric half-moons,
A wild plank, accompanied by black hippocamps,
When the Julys overcame with whip-blows
The ultramarine skies with their ardent funnels ;

I, who trembled, sensing moaning at fifty fathoms
The rut of the Behemoths and the thick Maelstroms,
Eternal runner through blue immobilities,
I regret Europe with its ancient parapets !

I've seen sidereal archipelagos ! And islands
Whose delirious skies are open to the wanderer :
- Is it in these bottomless nights that you sleep and hide,
A million golden birds, oh future Vigour ?

But, surely, I've cried too much ! The Dawns are pathetic.
Any moon is atrocious and all suns are bitter :
Acrid love has swollen my intoxicating torpors.
May my keel burst asunder ! May I go down to the sea !

If I long for one of Europe's waters, it's the pond,
Black and cold, where towards the embalmed dusk
A squatting child with a melancholic air puts out to sail
A boat as frail as a butterfly of May.

I can no longer, bathed in your languors, oh waves,
Remove the wakes of the cotton carriers,
Nor cross through the pride of the flags and the flames,
Nor swim under the horrible eyes of the prison ships.
